GettyMayor of London fails test of three questions after recently saying some people are too stupid to get on in life Boris Johnson has admitted that IQ is not the “only measure of ability” after failing to give a single correct answer when he was tested. The Mayor of London said in a speech that 16% of "our species" had an IQ of less than 85 and just 2% over 130 before adding "the harder you shake the pack, the easier it will be for some cornflakes to get to the top.” The comments lead to criticism that he viewed human beings as “a breed of dogs.” However when he was given his own IQ test on his regular LBC Radio slot “Ask Boris” he did not give a single correct answer to the questions put to him. Clearly unhappy to answer the questions by presenter Nick Ferrari Mr Johnson was combative in his answers. Asked how many apples he would have if he took two apples from three apples, the Mayor replied: "You've got loads of apples mate, you've got one apple left." Mr Ferrari replied: "You say you've got one apple? You haven't, you've got two apples." He added: “You didn't get any of the IQ questions right so who are you to lecture about IQ, Mr Mayor?" "No one has said that IQ is the only measure of ability but what I have been saying repeatedly is that our system is letting down people who do have ability and could do much better," Mr Johnson replied. Senior members of the coalition have been quick to distance themselves from Mr Johnson’s comments in his speech last week at the Margaret Thatcher lecture Boris Johnson's speech at the Maragaret Thatcher lecture in full However Mr Johnson said much of what he had said had been “willfully misconstrued.” He said: "People are entitled to misinterpret, willfully to misconstrue what I said if they so choose. I notice that many newspapers, many commentators did not. "I think the real issue is we need to do more to help people, both who are finding it tough and people who... 20 or 30 years ago we had much more fluidity..." Mr Cameron, speaking in Chinasaid he “let Boris speak for himself.” He added: "I think is very important that we make sure we do everything so that we maximise people's opportunities to make the most of their talents. George Osborne, the Chancellor went further telling the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show: “I wouldn’t have put it like that, I don’t agree with everything he said. “What I think there is actually increasingly common agreement, across the political spectrum is that you can’t achieve equality of outcome, but you should be able to achieve equality of opportunity wherever you come from, the best chance, and actually education is the absolutely key to this.” Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, said that the comments reveal a “fairly unpleasant, careless elitism” behind the image of Mr Johnson as a “funny and engaging guy”. Mr Clegg added that Mr Johnson’s comments of the relative IQ of the human “species” amounted to the London Mayor treating people like a “breed of dogs.”  FREE AppDownload
