REUTERS/Brendan McDermidNutritional supplement-seller Herbalife beat second quarter earnings estimates. For the second quarter, Herbalife posted adjusted EPS of $1.41 and sales of $1.22 billion. On average, analysts were expecting Herbalife to post adjusted-EPS of $1.18 on sales of $1.162 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock is up in after-hours trading. It was last trading up over 3% in the late session. Herbalife will hold an earnings conference call tomorrow morning.  Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company, has been the focal point of an epic clash of hedge fund titans. Back in December, Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, publicly revealed that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock because he believes the company is a "pyramid scheme."  Ackman's arch-nemesis billionaire investor Carl Icahn bought a massive stake in Herbalife. Icahn said he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes." Here's the release:  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) today reported second quarter net sales of $1.2 billion, reflecting an increase of 18 percent compared to the same time period in 2012, on volume point growth of 14 percent. Adjusted1 net income for the quarter of $150.7 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, compares to the second quarter 2012 net income of $132.0 million and EPS of $1.09, respectively. On an as reported basis, second quarter 2013 EPS of $1.34 increased 23 percent compared to the $1.09 reported in the comparable quarter last year. “We reported our fifteenth quarter in a row of double digit top-line growth, reflecting the success that our products and distribution model are having in markets around the world helping to mitigate the adverse effects of the obesity epidemic. The second quarter record results for volume point and net sales were driven by the ongoing engagement of our distributors and consumer demand for our weight loss and nutrition products worldwide,” said Michael O. Johnson, Herbalife’s chairman and CEO. For the quarter ended June 30, 2013 the company generated cash flow from operations of $213.8 million, an increase of 56 percent compared to 2012; paid dividends of $30.9 million and invested $31.3 million in capital expenditures. Second Quarter 2013 Key Metrics2,3 Regional Volume Point and Average Active Sales Leader Metrics Updated 2013 Guidance Guidance for fully diluted 2013 EPS is based on the average daily exchange rates of the first two weeks of July 2013. Our 2013 guidance continues to assume a Venezuelan exchange rate of 10 to 1 for the balance of the year, excludes the impact of the February devaluation of the bolivar as well as any potential future devaluation, and excludes the impact of any repatriation of existing cash balances in Venezuela. Guidance for the year also excludes the following which were recognized in the first half of the year: $15.1 million in expenses (post-tax), mostly legal and advisory services relating to the Company’s response to information put into the marketplace by a short seller which information the Company believes to be inaccurate and misleading, and $2.7 million in expenses (post-tax) incurred for the re-audit of 2010-2012 financial statements resulting from KPMG LLP’s resignation, as well as any additional expenses related to these matters that are expected to be incurred in the second half of the year. Based on current business trends the company’s third quarter fiscal 2013 and full year fiscal 2013 guidance is provided below. September 30, 2013 December 31, 2013 26.5 Announces Quarterly Dividend The company reported today that its board of directors has approved a dividend of $0.30 per share to shareholders of record August 13, 2013, payable on August 27, 2013. Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call Herbalife senior management will host an investor conference call to discuss its recent financial results and provide an update on current business trends on Tuesday, July 30, 2013 at 8 a.m. PST (11 a.m. EST). The dial-in number for this conference call for domestic callers is (877) 317-1296 and (706) 634-5671 for international callers (conference ID 11550232). Live audio of the conference call will be simultaneously webcast in the investor relations section of the company's website athttp://ir.herbalife.com. An audio replay will be available following the completion of the conference call in MP3 format or by dialing (855) 859-2056 for domestic callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers (conference ID 11550232). The webcast of the teleconference will be archived and available on Herbalife's website. About Herbalife Ltd. Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) is a global nutrition company that sells weight-management, nutrition, and personal care products intended to support a healthy lifestyle. Herbalife products are sold in over 80 countries through and to a network of independent distributors. The company supports the Herbalife Family Foundation and its Casa Herbalife program to help bring good nutrition to children. Herbalife's website contains a significant amount of information about Herbalife, including financial and other information for investors at http://ir.Herbalife.com. The company encourages investors to visit its website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed or incorporated by reference in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • the resignation of our former independent registered public accounting firm, its withdrawal of its audit reports with respect to certain of our historical financial statements, and any difficulties PricewaterhouseCoopers, our successor accounting firm encounters in the re-audits of such relevant historical financial statements or any material modifications to such historical financial statements PricewaterhouseCoopers believes should be made as a result of such re-audits; • any collateral impact resulting from the ongoing worldwide financial environment, including the availability of liquidity to us, our customers and our suppliers or the willingness of our customers to purchase products in a difficult economic environment; • our relationship with, and our ability to influence the actions of, our distributors; • improper action by our employees or distributors in violation of applicable law; • adverse publicity associated with our products or network marketing organization, including our ability to comfort the marketplace and regulators regarding our compliance with applicable laws; • changing consumer preferences and demands; • our reliance upon, or the loss or departure of any member of, our senior management team which could negatively impact our distributor relations and operating results; • the competitive nature of our business; • regulatory matters governing our products, including potential governmental or regulatory actions concerning the safety or efficacy of our products and network marketing program, including the direct selling market in which we operate; • legal challenges to our network marketing program; • risks associated with operating internationally and the effect of economic factors, including foreign exchange, inflation, disruptions or conflicts with our third party importers, pricing and currency devaluation risks, especially in countries such as Venezuela; • uncertainties relating to the application of transfer pricing, duties, value added taxes, and other tax regulations, and changes thereto; • uncertainties relating to interpretation and enforcement of legislation in China governing direct selling; • uncertainties relating to the interpretation, enforcement or amendment of legislation in India governing direct selling; • our inability to obtain the necessary licenses to expand our direct selling business in China; • adverse changes in the Chinese economy, Chinese legal system or Chinese governmental policies; • our dependence on increased penetration of existing markets; • contractual limitations on our ability to expand our business; • our reliance on our information technology infrastructure and outside manufacturers; • the sufficiency of trademarks and other intellectual property rights; • product concentration; • changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation; • taxation relating to our distributors; • product liability claims; • whether we will purchase any of our shares in the open markets or otherwise; and • share price volatility related to, among other things, speculative trading and certain traders shorting our common shares. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 1 See Schedule A – “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more detail. 2 Supplemental tables that include additional business metrics can be found athttp://www.ir.herbalife.com. 3 Worldwide Average Active Sales Leaders may not equal the sum of the Average Active Sales Leaders in each region due to the calculation being an average of Sales Leaders active in a period, not a summation, and the fact that some sales leaders are active in more than one region but are counted only once in the worldwide amount. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: 6/30/2012 (2)     6/30/2012 (2) (1) As a result of the resignation of KPMG, the unaudited interim financial information presented has not been reviewed by an outside independent accounting firm. See Note 2 of the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. (2) As discussed in Note 2 of the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, prior year amounts have been revised for income tax errors that were considered not material, individually or in the aggregate, to any of the prior reporting periods. (Unaudited and Unreviewed) (1) 2012 (2) (Unaudited and Unreviewed)(1)   6/30/2012 (2)   SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION SCHEDULE A: RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES(unaudited and unreviewed), (Dollars in Thousand, Except Per Share Data) In addition to its reported results, the Company has included in the tables below adjusted results that the Securities and Exchange Commission defines as “non-GAAP financial measures.” Management believes that such non-GAAP financial measures, when read in conjunction with the Company’s reported results, can provide useful supplemental information for investors in analyzing period to period comparisons of the Company’s results. 6/30/2012 (3)   6/30/2012 (3)   6/30/2012 (3)   6/30/2012 (3)   The following is a reconciliation of total long-term debt to net debt:  FREE AppDownload
