Lululemon puns are totally out of control. For those still unfamiliar with what happened with the apparel retailer, Lululemon has pulled from its shelves a large number of black luon yoga pants, which had been deemed too see-through. Granted, it was bound to happen, considering the nature of the story at hand.  But we're seeing a deluge of yoga pants puns, the likes of which mankind has never seen. Look at all these headlines: "Lululemon stock drops as yoga pants expose problems" — Reuters "Yoga-Pants Supplier Says Lululemon Stretches Truth" — The Wall Street Journal "Sheer Lululemon pants would sell, say cheeky observers" — CBC "Yoga Pants Reveal Lululemon Shortcomings" — The Financial Times "See-through pants? How Lululemon became the butt of the Internet’s jokes" — The Globe and Mail "It's clear to see: Yoga pants were too sheer" — The Columbus Dispatch "I See London, I See France: Lululemon Wears Crisis Well" — MarketingDaily "Lululemon yoga pant recall sheer comfort for cheaper brands" — The Lantern Yuk yuk! Once you delve into those articles and many others, you realize how rampant the puns are: "Another problem like this could leave the company with a lasting (ahem) bum rap." — Jena McGregor at The Washington Post “It is clear from the disclosed information that [Lululemon] has not yet gotten to the bottom of the problem (pun intended).” — Faye Landes, analyst at Cowen &amp; Co, to The Financial Times "Are these see-through pants a cover-up for falling revenue? — Amanda Holpuch at The Guardian "The company's profits are going downward, dog." — Robin Abcarian at the Los Angeles Times "Investors usually like transparency. But not in this case." — Anne D'Innocenzio and Michelle Chapman at the Associated Press "And just like that, shareholders ran to cover their own bottom (lines, that is)" — Lydia Dishman at Forbes Of course, the Twitter-folk would never have allowed themselves to be left behind for yoga-punmageddon:  See-through #Lululemon pants headline suggestion: Sheer Madness! No company has embraced transparency quite like Lulumon. Unwanted exposure for Lululemon cbc.sh/2RTwJWM I "recall" when Lululemon was nonexistent and the Italian Stallion ate raw eggs and jogged the Philly dawn in thick baggy cotton MAN sweats! Flaw or transparent marketing genius? &gt;&gt; See-through yoga pants a pain for Lululemon bo.st/11fhoQG via @bostondotcom Yoga outfitter Lululemon has found itself in a compromising position. ow.ly/jfONi fb.me/1BWFJB9gE FREE AppDownload
