APHouse Speaker John Boehner's office has released excerpts from Sen. Marco Rubio's GOP response to the State of the Union address tonight, in which Rubio plans to cast President Barack Obama's economic plans as "big government" proposals that will harm the economy. Rubio will attack Obama for an "obsession" with raising taxes as a means to reduce the budget deficit, saying it will not spur economic growth. Rubio will warn that this could be the "generation responsible for America's decline" unless Washington works to "get our economy healthy again." Here are the excerpts: "This opportunity – to make it to the middle class or beyond no matter where you start out in life – it isn’t bestowed on us from Washington.  It comes from a vibrant free economy where people can risk their own money to open a business. And when they succeed, they hire more people, who in turn invest or spend the money they make, helping others start a business and create jobs.  Presidents in both parties – from John F. Kennedy to Ronald Reagan – have known that our free enterprise economy is the source of our middle class prosperity.  But President Obama?  He believes it’s the cause of our problems." … "Mr. President, I still live in the same working class neighborhood I grew up in. My neighbors aren’t millionaires. They’re retirees who depend on Social Security and Medicare. They’re workers who have to get up early tomorrow morning and go to work to pay the bills. They’re immigrants, who came here because they were stuck in poverty in countries where the government dominated the economy.  The tax increases and the deficit spending you propose will hurt middle class families. It will cost them their raises. It will cost them their benefits. It may even cost some of them their jobs.  And it will hurt seniors because it does nothing to save Medicare and Social Security.  So Mr. President, I don’t oppose your plans because I want to protect the rich. I oppose your plans because I want to protect my neighbors."  … "Economic growth is the best way to help the middle class.  Unfortunately, our economy actually shrank during the last three months of 2012.  But if we can get the economy to grow at just 4 percent a year, it would create millions of middle class jobs. And it could reduce our deficits by almost $4 trillion dollars over the next decade.  Tax increases can’t do this. Raising taxes won’t create private sector jobs. And there’s no realistic tax increase that could lower our deficits by almost $4 trillion. That’s why I hope the President will abandon his obsession with raising taxes and instead work with us to achieve real growth in our economy."   … "The real cause of our debt is that our government has been spending 1 trillion dollars more than it takes in every year. That’s why we need a balanced budget amendment.  The biggest obstacles to balancing the budget are programs where spending is already locked in.  One of these programs, Medicare, is especially important to me. It provided my father the care he needed to battle cancer and ultimately die with dignity. And it pays for the care my mother receives now.  I would never support any changes to Medicare that would hurt seniors like my mother.  But anyone who is in favor of leaving Medicare exactly the way it is right now, is in favor of bankrupting it."   … "Despite our differences, I know that both Republicans and Democrats love America. I pray we can come together to solve our problems, because the choices before us could not be more important.  If we can get our economy healthy again, our children will be the most prosperous Americans ever.  And if we do not, we will forever be known as the generation responsible for America’s decline." FREE AppDownload
