Flickr / harry_nlThe March ISM manufacturing report is out and it's a miss. The headline number fell to 51.3, down from 54.2 last month. Economists were looking for a reading of 54.0. Any reading above 50 signals expansion. Click Here For Updates &gt; From the ISM: The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management™ Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The PMI™ registered 51.3 percent, a decrease of 2.9 percentage points from February's reading of 54.2 percent, indicating expansion in manufacturing for the fourth consecutive month, but at a slower rate. Both the New Orders and Production Indexes reflected growth in March compared to February, albeit at slower rates, registering 51.4 and 52.2 percent, respectively. The Employment Index registered 54.2, an increase of 1.6 percentage points compared to February's reading of 52.6 percent. The Prices Index decreased 7 percentage points to 54.5, and the list of commodities up in price reflected far fewer items than in February. In addition, the Backlog of Orders, Exports and Imports Indexes all grew in March." Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 14 are reporting growth in March in the following order: Wood Products; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Fabricated Metal Products; Paper Products; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Transportation Equipment; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Primary Metals; and Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products. The three industries reporting contraction in March are: Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Chemical Products; and Machinery. Here's a breakdown of the subcomponents: ISM Earlier this morning, we learned that the Markit U.S. PMI slipped to 54.6 from 54.9 last month. This came in the wake of a slew of Asian PMI reports, that all signaled acceleration. FREE AppDownload
