Of all the millions of words uttered in the past year on the possibility of the British being given a referendum on whether or not to remain in the European Union, scarcely any have had the faintest connection to reality. This unreal debate was triggered, of course, by David Cameron’s pledge that, if re-elected in 2015, he would negotiate with Brussels for the return of unspecified powers of government and then, in 2017, would lead the “Yes” campaign in a referendum, arguing that Britain should stay a member of the EU on the basis of the new relationship with it that he had so brilliantly negotiated. His proposal last January – only made to buy off the fear of so many of his backbenchers that Ukip might cost them their seats in 2015 – was no more than an empty political gesture. As many in Brussels have scornfully made clear, there is no way that Britain could be given back any powers, because this would breach the most sacred principle on which the EU is founded, that once powers have been handed over they can never be returned. At least Mr Cameron has brought out a consensus of the great and the good – from politicians of all parties to the CBI and most of the press – that above all, while the dysfunctional EU is indeed in need of “reform”, for Britain to leave it would be a disaster – because this would exclude us from the Single Market which accounts for nearly half our trade. As recent polls have confirmed, even if there was a referendum tomorrow, it is this more than anything that would terrify the British public into voting to stay in. But there are two issues in this debate which the supporters of the consensus are determined must never be raised. The first is that there is only one way in which Brussels could be made to negotiate the new relationship with the EU that the Cameronites say they are after – by invoking Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. This would compel the EU by law to negotiate with us. But that, as we know, can only be triggered by a country that first says it wishes to leave the EU. The second fact the Cameronites are absolutely determined we shouldn’t discuss is that there are many countries, such as Norway, which trade as freely with the Single Market as we do, without having to be members of the EU. What do Mr Cameron and his supporters tell us they want? To negotiate a new relationship between Britain and the EU and for Britain to enjoy continued free access to the Single Market. There is only one legal and practical way in which they can have everything they want, but that depends on invoking Article 50. So they slam the door on it before they’ve even started, by insisting that there is no way they could allow Britain to leave the EU. Thus they continue to dream their dreams, prattling about negotiations which can never happen, the return of powers they never name and meaningless referendums sometime in the indefinite future. They doom Britain to drift on into the twilight of a nation, impotently complaining at how we are shackled to this increasingly dysfunctional form of government, which next year will have its mind only on yet another centralising new treaty designed to rescue it from the insoluble mess of the euro. But we cannot be allowed to know that it doesn’t have to be like this. Locked in the mind prison of “Europe”, the political class that rules us won’t have it any other way. The greatest threat to children’s future is hidden from public view Yet again last week our media were full of how Britain’s “child-protection” system has gone so horrendously off the rails. There was the report on the near-collapse of Birmingham’s social services, already described by the head of Ofsted as “a national disaster”. Even our education ministry, in charge of children’s services, dismissed as “useless” and “rubbish” a report absolving Bradford social workers of any blame for failing to prevent the murder of the little boy whose mummified corpse was found only two years later. But yet again absent from all thIs outrage was any recognition of the other half of the scandal of how our “child-protection” system has gone off the rails, in its own way just as immense and terrifying. This has been the way, since the “Baby P” scandal hit the headlines in 2008, our social workers have overreacted in precisely the opposite direction — by seizing thousands of children from loving parents for no good reason. In all those reports on the breakdown of Birmingham’s social services department, no<U+2009>one bothered to interview the one MP, John Hemming, who knows the failings of Birmingham’s social workers as well as anyone, not least from his days as deputy leader of Birmingham council. Mr Hemming is the only MP who, for years, has been trying to blow the whistle on the scandalous way in which our social workers, instead of pursuing those tough cases of children being genuinely maltreated, have gone instead for the “soft targets” of families where there is no real call for their intervention. It is so much easier to snatch attractive, reasonably well-behaved children who are ideal for meeting the Government’s drive for more adoptions, or, better still, to feed our vast fostering industry, paying foster carers £400 a week for each child, much of it lucratively run by agencies set up by former social workers. Mr Hemming notes how one reason why Birmingham’s social services have become so demoralised, with a fifth of their jobs vacant and the same number absent sick, is that, as in many others across Britain, responsible, humane-minded social workers find it impossible to stay there. So much of what they are now expected to do no longer matches up to the ideals of genuinely trying to help children that brought them into the profession. But the reason, above all, why our “child-protection” system has become so corrupted is that its workings are so fiercely hidden from public view by that wall of secrecy erected to protect them by our judges. At least Sir James Munby, the new head of our family courts, is now trying to chip away at that wall of secrecy, as he did again last week by calling in a speech to editors for our family courts to be “opened up to the world”. The press, he told them, must be “jealously vigilant” in watching for miscarriages of justice, where judges are exercising what, since the end of the death penalty, have become “the most drastic powers” they possess — “the power to take a baby away from a mother for life”. Next week I intend to report on yet another horrific instance of how his fellow judges still seem relentlessly determined to resist the point he is so valiantly trying to make. Resist green tax suicide like the brave Poles Wholly predictable last week was the ghoulish eagerness of the warmists (including David Cameron) to blame the Philippines typhoon disaster on “man-made climate change”. Those sceptics who actually consult the evidence wearily pointed out that in recent years tropical storm activity, including Pacific typhoons, has been less intense than for decades; and that Asia was hit by even worse typhoons in the past, notably in the late 17th century, at the height of the “Little Ice Age” when the world was much colder than it is now. Meanwhile, in Warsaw, 10,000 officials and climate activists are gathered under the auspices of the UN, in yet another desperate attempt to agree that we must all be taxed and regulated into further reducing our “carbon emissions”. An innovation this time, however, was a 50,000-strong mass demonstration nearby, in support of a “counter-conference” sponsored by Solidarity and other Polish groups, to protest at how the UN’s bogus science is being used to “deceive the world”. As the country that relies more on coal for its electricity than any other in Europe, Poland is leading the way in resisting the pressure for the EU to commit economic suicide by raising its insane “carbon-reduction targets” even higher — pressure led by our own Government. When can we hope to see 50,000 people turning out in Britain to protest that we have the most idiotically self-destructive energy and “climate” policies in the world?  FREE AppDownload
