Vimeo, screenshotArian Foster, the star running back for the Houston Texans, is now the first athlete to go public. He has sold a 20 percent stake in his future income to Fantex Holdings, a stock market for buying and selling shares in the earnings potential of athletes.  It works like this. Arian Foster gets a check for $10 million. In exchange, Fantex gets a 20 percent "tax" on all future Arian Foster income. That means if Foster earns more than $50 million starting now, Fantex and its investors stand to make money. If Foster earns less than $50 million, he just signed a sweet deal. Actually, forget if. Foster just signed a sweet deal. With just over $20 million left on his current contract ending in 2016, Foster will be 30 when he's up for another contract. For work-horse backs like Foster who carry the ball 300-400 times a season, 30 years old might as well be 90. He will never get another $20 million contract, which means anybody betting in his future is hoping Foster gets on ESPN and slowly works his way toward $50 million over the course of the next few decades. But let's dig deeper. There are at least three sports reasons and three business reasons why Arian Foster is an awful investment for you. Here are the sports reasons, moving from the general to the specific. And here are the business reasons, moving similarly from the general to the specific. -- We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in the future.  -- We have a very limited operating history ... -- To date, we have not generated any revenues or cash flow from any brand contract... -- We will need to obtain additional funding to acquire additional brands and we may also need additional funding to continue operations. If we fail to obtain the necessary financing, or fail to become profitable or are unable to sustain profitability on a continuing basis, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and we may be forced to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue our operations. -- Our principal source of cash flow for the foreseeable future will be derived from our brand contracts.  -- We do not have any experience managing brand contracts and we do not have any historical performance data about our brand contracts. Dear lord. In short: We're a young, unproven company losing lots of money, relying on a business that we don't have any experience in and that we cannot predict with any accuracy.  3. When you buy a stock of Arian Foster through Fantex, you're not just betting on Foster, the older, proven NFL back. You're betting on Fantex, the young, unproven company losing lots of money, relying on a business that they don't have any experience in and that they cannot predict with any accuracy. Per the prospectus: While we intend for our Fantex Series Arian Foster to track the performance of the brand, we cannot provide any guarantee that the series will in fact track the performance of such brand. Wait, what? So Arian Foster stock isn't really Arian Foster stock? Go on... The board of directors has discretion to reattribute assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows without the approval of shareholders of a particular tracking series, which discretion will be exercised in accordance with its fiduciary duties under Delaware law and only where its decisions are in the best interests of the company and the stockholders as a whole. Essentially, the board has the right to dilute your shares if the company's investments turn sour. Felix Salmon translates into even simpler English: If Foster fails, investors lose; if Fantex fails, investors lose. The upshot here? Fantex is a fun story. Do not become a character in it. Keep your money in that index fund. FREE AppDownload
