Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, believes the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products is a pyramid scheme. His hedge fund is shorting more than 20 million shares and has a price target of zero.  Following Ackman's 342-slide presentation, Herbalife came out and said that he used outdated and inaccurate information.  Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, shares are off 6%.  They had tumbled more than 38% at one point.  Today, Herbalife presented its rebuttal to Ackman's claims.   We've included highlights below. He says they will talk about some Herbalife vocabulary that has caused some confusion. &nbsp; The first one he says is 'HLF is Not a Product Company.' He says that couldn't be further from the truth. &nbsp;He says they intentionally used misinformation. &nbsp; He says HLF invests a significant amount in product development.&nbsp; The COO is showing pictures of the distribution centers around the world.&nbsp;  HLF says price per unit is more accurate. The COO says they are competitively priced.  He says they don't use "hired guns" to review products, but outside consultants.&nbsp; He says they make significant investments for product development.&nbsp; He says they have numerous global distribution facilities.&nbsp; They're competitively priced. HLF president says they have a "robust and thriving consumer base."&nbsp;  SEE:&nbsp;http://www.businessinsider.com/pershing-square-photos-of-herbalife-nutrition-clubs-2012-12 "This isn't a country club in Westchester," he says adding "This is America" and we "shouldn't speak down about it."&nbsp; Once he learned they were from Pershing he said they could call him with questions. He added that they hired an ad agency.&nbsp; In her paper, &nbsp;she wrote that HLF fails to meet the criteria for a pyramid scheme. She says &nbsp;there's no evidence of anything that this company is not a legit MLM. &nbsp;Not an opinion, but a fact, she says. An article in the WSJ yesterday said the SEC has opened a probe into Herbalife, the paper said citing a person familiar. He pointed out that Girl Scouts use direct selling for cookies and no one attacks them. FREE AppDownload
