Spotify just raised a lot of money — $250 million to be more precise, according to a Wall Street Journal report citing multiple anonymous sources familiar with the matter. That means it’s nearly doubled the total amount of funding the company has raised prior to the new round to a whopping $533 million. We’re reaching out to Spotify for confirmation about the new funding, and will update this post with any new information. Now, you may be wondering if arguably the most popular streaming music service in the world really needs another quarter billion dollars. Well, the answer isn’t entirely clear, but there are a few rational things Spotify may need more capital for. One of the two largest expenditures for Spotify is likely expanding its music service into more international markets. Spotify is currently available in 28 markets across the globe, with the latest expansions happening in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, and Mexico. The WSJ is reporting that the company would like to move into the Japanese market as well as some others in the near future. The other big expenditure that would justify Spotify raising the new round would be to help pay for the hefty music licensing fees. For perspective, the company spent 70 percent of its total revenue in 2012 being spent on content. That’s to be expected considering that Spotify currently has 24 million active monthly listeners and 6 million paying subscribers. The larger question here is if Spotify is depending on the new funding to help pay off these licensing fees, or if it’s just waiting on revenue to increase from its continued growth and wants more cash to make sure that happens. The company has lost money over the last few years, too — with the total loss increasing the last three years. It still may be another 18 months or longer before we really know if Spotify’s long-term business strategy is working. And while Spotify is firmly focused on growth and maintaining a robust library of songs, the company has also been adding new features to the service, building out its advertising model for the free ad-supported version of the service, and cultivating its own application platform that lets developers build music services on top of Spotify. The new funding round was led by Technology Crossover Ventures The new round also bumps Spotify’s estimated valuation to “north” of $4 billion, according to WSJ’s sources. Previous reports placed the company’s valuation at closer to $5 billion. FREE AppDownload
