There's been no lack of love for the U.S. dollar in the markets lately. At the end of May, the dollar index strengthened to its highest levels since 2010. Meanwhile, last week, bullish bets on the dollar hit an all-time high. And Wall Street says we are on the verge of a secular bull market in the dollar. That trade is getting hit pretty hard today. The dollar index is trading down 1.0%, and many currencies that have been weakening against the dollar – like the South African rand, the Brazilian real, and the Australian dollar – are rallying. (The Australian dollar has become one of hedge funds' favorite currencies to short as growth in China slows, hitting Australian commodity exports to the Asian giant. It's up 2.1% against the U.S. dollar today alone.) The chart below shows the sharp sell-off in the dollar index. Thinkorswim One big area of weakness for the dollar today is against the Japanese yen, another favorite trade among global investors in recent quarters. The dollar is down 1.3% against the yen as investors cover their short-yen positions. Buying Japanese stocks and selling the yen against the dollar has become one of the most consensus trades in the world, but in the past two weeks or so, it's run into some serious trouble. The dollar has fallen from a high of ¥103.72 against the yen to current levels around ¥99.17 today. Meanwhile, the Nikkei has lost a brutal 17% since May 22 – and futures are still taking a bath in after-hours trading today. At the moment, they are down 1.8% from today's close. This morning's ISM manufacturing release revealed that the American manufacturing sector unexpectedly entered into contraction in May – marking, in fact, the worst contraction since June 2009. Economists had predicted continued expansion. The release caused bond yields to fall as investors rotated back into U.S. Treasuries in a safe-haven bid. That triggered a plunge in the dollar index and a big upward move in the yen, illustrating how the U.S. economic comeback story is still the biggest theme driving global markets right now. FREE AppDownload
