Mod Note: this was originally posted on May 24th, but never made it to the homepage. You can now also see part 2 here Hello all. Inspired by another user's idea a few weeks ago, I've decided to keep notes of my internship in progress this summer and begin to release write-ups of each week as the summer goes on in an effort to give back to the community (and because I enjoy writing). If there is enough interest, I'll continue the series. ---------------------- Monday morning arrived in the blink of an eye. Instructions were received ahead of time from HR concerning the logistics of orientation day: what to bring, when to arrive, and how to dress. Several of us met in front of the dorm building bright and early, well ahead of our scheduled arrival times, and set out to meet our makers. Training week is a relatively straightforward beast and should be treated as such. There are some common pitfalls that you will witness. Your homework or preassigned training by HR may or may not be requested; either way, it’s good to start your summer strong by coming in ready to go, fresh on common finance and accounting material, with all of your bases covered. Now is a good time to shoot your staffers and assigned mentors an e-mail to introduce yourself if you haven’t already. The training itself is marginally useful, but it is important to remember that academic settings (even those coordinated by investment banks themselves!) are not entirely reflective of what you’ll actually be doing once you hit the floor. You will get out of the material what you put in; sit in the first few rows, keep yourself energized, and focus on the instructor. Unfortunately, most of us are not wired to be able to sit through hours and hours of lecturing a day and absorb all of the information efficiently. As such, I will break down my training week agenda and emphasize what is especially important and what you’ll be able to sleep through and live to tell the tale at the end of the summer with an offer in hand. Orientation is a no-brainer. You come in, meet the HR people coordinating the summer analyst program, put on a name tag with your group and/or school listed, go through any clearance procedures that need doing if your bank didn't have you do them in advance, sit down, receive free company stuff and your ID badge, meet the other interns, and listen to bankers deliver motivational and cautionary advice about the experience that lies ahead. Simple enough. The true essence of a no-brainer is laying back and discovering the no-brainers in your intern class. Below I have compiled the contents of my training week into a neat table for your information. I will break them down accordingly. Monday ---------- 8:30 AM – Check-in with HR and have breakfast 10:30 AM – IBD group head welcomes the intern class 11:30 AM – HR summer analyst program managers introduce themselves 12:00 PM – Lunch break 1:00 PM – Lectures concerning compliance, expectations, summer logistics 4:30 PM – Break out into summer groups and meet with intern sponsors 5:00 PM – Welcome reception Tuesday ---------- 8:00 AM – Macroeconomics 10:00 AM – Technology and IT resources 11:00 AM – Accounting and financial statement analysis 12:30 PM – Lunch 1:30 PM – Accounting and financial statement analysis continued 4:00 PM – Financial statement analysis application and examples 6:00 PM – Accounting and financial statement analysis homework assigned Wednesday ---------- 8:00 AM – Homework review 9:00 AM – Financial modeling 12:00 PM – Lunch break 1:00 PM – Investment banking analyst position 1:30 PM – Group positions, responsibilities, and hierarchy 2:00 PM – Introduction to valuation 4:00 PM – Trading comparables 6:00 PM – Modeling homework assigned Thursday ---------- 8:00 AM – Homework review 9:00 AM – DCF 12:00 PM – Lunch 1:00 PM – DCF continued 4:00 PM – Combined application of different valuation methods 6:00 PM – Valuation homework assigned Friday ---------- 8:00 AM – Homework review 9:00 AM – Equity research 10:00 AM – Research, presentation services, and IB resources 12:00 PM – Lunch 1:00 PM – Pitchbooks 4:00 PM – Closing In summary, training day is all about introductions and first impressions. Your HR program managers will be in attendance, and you should take a few seconds out of the multiple intersessions to shake their hands. Equally important is taking the time to meet the other interns around you. If you attend a non-target school, this is the opportunity to plug yourself into the clique of elite institutions and its future Wall Streeters. I've heard several bankers’ accounts of how they still make it a point to meet up with their intern class colleagues to this day. Besides, you never know when you’re going to need a favor over the course of the next couple months; it usually helps to have some rapport built in advance. Make it a point to remember everyone’s name. Not because they’re going to remember yours, but because it elevates you in their eyes when you recount theirs effortlessly at a later date, almost as if they now owe you something as they fumble around their minds’ innermost recesses for a remote clue as to your identity. For the rest of the day (yes, there's more) head to Wall Street Oasis&gt; This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
