AP, Verge Images, Photoshop by Jay Yarow Apple's stock is down 25% from its peak. Many factors have contributed to that drop. But none is more important than this: Apple has lost its edge. What does that mean? It means that Apple is no longer the clear product leader in several categories in which it has dominated the world in the past five years. Now, of course, Apple is still the most valuable and profitable company in the world. And its product design, manufacturing, and distribution are still remarkable. And it's still a great company that makes great products (I, for one, am a very happy Apple customer*). So, let's be specific. For most of the past five years, Apple has led the world in the following key areas. In the past couple of years, however, Apple has lost its lead. And in some areas, it has actually fallen behind: In all of these areas, Apple has lost a once-dominant edge. In the last year, we have also seen Apple stumble with respect to a widely expected new product--a new Apple TV. This product was initially expected to be announced last fall, and some of the excitement that drove Apple to $700 a share was anticipation about this release (most of it was anticipation about the iPhone 5). Ciccarese Design for MacRumors.comLast fall, this would have been cool.But now, analysts don't expect to see an Apple TV until the fall of 2013. And in the meantime, every other electronics company on earth is trying to frontrun Apple's TV effort, including Samsung. These efforts will make it harder for Apple to leapfrog existing TVs--and charge a premium price--when Apple's own TV finally comes out. (Apple fans will protest that Apple never announced a release date for the TV product, or even announced what it will be. That's certainly fair. But time does matter. Competitors aren't standing still. What would have been a startlingly cool TV last fall--"a sheet of glass floating in mid-air" and "a voice-operated show selector"--has now been debuted by Samsung. So the bar for Apple to establish a true edge in this market keeps going up.) It is hard for even the best companies to maintain an edge, especially in markets that move as fast as technology. And Apple rode its edge to amazing heights: The iPhone is still the biggest and most profitable single product in the world. But Apple has now lost much of its edge. So the next few years will be interesting. Especially as Apple truly moves into the "post-Steve Jobs era," which it is finally doing this year. SEE ALSO: Apple Launching A Cheap iPhone Is A Great Move By The Company *NOTE: Some readers have emailed me to ask whether I wrote this article because I am a Samsung-Android fan. I like the Samsung Galaxy S3 and I own two Samsung TVs (and love them). But my phone is an Apple iPhone 5, my laptop is an Apple Air, and we have an Apple iPad at home. I love these products. I also love Apple's customer service. As I said above, I am a very happy Apple customer, and I think Apple is a great company. But I still think the company has lost its edge.  FREE AppDownload
