www.flickr.comPlease see my previous post, on Insurance as Risk Transfer Only Good uses of insurance Optional uses of insurance If you find yourself the primary or sole caregiver of minor children, and you have limited savings, the next 2 types of risk transfer are mandatory.  Otherwise they’re optional. Bad uses of Insurance 6. Warranties – I’m indifferent to car warranties, as I don’t know enough about them.  But electronics warranties are a complete waste of your money.  It’s extra insurance you do not need, on an ‘asset’ which depreciates in value faster than you can count backwards from 100.  The warranty company depends on you neglecting to exchange your electronic device, because in 2 years there’s something better out there anyway.  As I wrote earlier, warranties are the ultimate “neglect-based” business, along with life insurance policies. 7. Car Rental Insurance – Chances are you’re already double-covered by your own automobile insurance, as well as insurance from your credit card. Have you noticed the rental agencies really like to push three difference types of insurance on you?  Unless you’ve got a very special situation, you don’t need that stuff. “Can I at least put you down for bumper to bumper coverage?”  Stop. Bugging. Me. 6. Variable Annuity – Monstrosity.  The chimera that neither breathes fire nor flies straight.  High cost, low return, illiquid.   Perfect!   Here’s a quick quiz: Question: Why does the Wall Street Journal always carry headlines such as: “Are variable annuities a good idea or just too costly?” instead of more honest headlines like “Are you a moron who likes to be separated from your money?  Try variable annuities!”? [1] Answer: An awful lot of insurance company advertisers vie for eyeballs right next to that variable annuity article.   Please see related posts Insurance, Part I – Risk Transfer Only and Insurance Part III – Calculations of Life Insurance as an investment [1] The authors of these variable annuity articles seemingly know they’re terrible, but they also seem to know who pays the bills.  I feel badly for them, writing the articles must be torture.  Here’s a few recent samples from the Wall Street Journal this Spring: “Cheaper Annuities With Benefits,” “New Annuity Guarantees Raise Questions,” and “They’re Changing Our Annuity!” This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
