via Arlington ClubUPPER EAST SIDE — The price of this steak might give you a heart attack. At Arlington Club, chef Laurent Tourondel has started offering customers a 72-ounce "cowboy"-cut rib-eye for a price some diners may find hard to swallow — $555. The dinner — a Wednesday-night special recommended for parties of four or more — also includes a 16-ounce lobster tail, creamed spinach with nutmeg, truffle gnocchi, reblochon rosti and peppercorn sauce, he said. The Arlington Club, located at 1032 Lexington Ave. near East 74th Street, will then pack any leftovers to be in lunch-perfect condition — extra steak is placed on potato rolls and a side of coleslaw is provided, Tourondel said. Only eight such steaks are offered each Wednesday — and only after 8:30 p.m. — Tourondel said. "Numbered tags keep count with the last one reading 'SOLD OUT,'" he explained in an email to DNAinfo New York. Asked what prompted his sudden interest in what's being billed by the restaurateur as a "large-format feast," Tourondel said the dish is one of his top personal picks. “The rib-eye is my favorite cut of meat next to the Cote de Boeuf, which I always tell people is just a rib-eye for two," he said. "We wanted to do something truly special for our guests and worked with our steak purveyor at Arlington Club to find the perfect cowboy rib-eye, which is really a double Cote de Boeuf." Tourondel said the 72-ounce steak comes out of the kitchen "with a 6-inch exposed bone and atop a pile of smoking herbs." "It’s a spectacular thing to see it coming through the dining room!" he added. "Having the steak sliced tableside and the smoking herbs wafting through the air makes this a really interactive experience for our guests," he said. The steak, aged dry for 28 days, is prepared with the club's "signature 1,200-degree sear and rosy, juicy interior," restaurant management said. Diners who want to try this "cowboy" meat cut must make reservations. "Each steak must be ordered with at least 24 hours advanced notice to give the kitchen enough time to perfectly prepare it for your party," managers said. Steaks can be reserved by calling 212-249-5700. FREE AppDownload
