Terren in Virginia via FlickrAs a kid, I remember the Apollo lunar module losing all communication for about one hour as it orbited around the back of the moon. We all held our breath for that hour, waiting to hear that all was okay.*  That is what happens with the housing market each winter. Sales slow during the holiday season and don't pick back up until the sun shines. That sun shines brightest first in Arizona and Florida, which is where we will be turning our attention in January as the first indicator of 2014's housing market.  The Cool Fall This winter provides the most angst in several years, as the last three months have been characterized by slowing sales and a rising percentage of greedy sellers dropping price to generate activity. I call some sellers greedy because none of them envisioned one year ago that they would be asking so much for their house today. This also sounds a lot better than price declines. Slowing sales have had three causes at their root:  Before the slowdown, I was expressing extreme concern that the market was getting overheated, as I was seeing flippers (and hard money debt available to flippers) reemerge. This slowdown should temper flipping.  Interesting Twists In short posts like this, I don't have time to go into the details of our outlook, so let me just add a few additional things to ponder over the holiday season:  An Objective Index We have all sorts of tools we use to bring clarity to our housing outlook, and one of my favorites is our Housing Cycle Risk Index™ (HCRI), which is a purely mathematical look at how 25 indicators of demand, supply, affordability, and confidence stack up today against history in each market area. At a high level, you need to know three things:   The current spot on the HCRI™ is shown in the graphic below. Most markets have A and B ratings and are trending down because affordability and supply were both better early in the year. This means that now is a great time to invest, although with far more caution than earlier in the year. That is not a blanket statement, however, as prices have moved much faster than the fundamentals, and it is easy to overpay. John Burns Real Estate Consulting What Does It All Mean? Our view on 2014 is in line with the consensus view that the economy is most likely to continue growing at its current pace, new home supply will continue to grow at a 15%+ clip but remain far below normal levels, and mortgage rates should remain in the 4.5% range. If that is the case, and there are no exogenous shocks from our leadership or elsewhere, demand will continue to exceed supply, and affordability will continue to be better than usual in most markets. This should give rise to a healthy housing market in 2014. Let's all hold our breath. *I am borrowing this excellent analogy from Ara Hovnanian, CEO of K. Hovnanian. FREE AppDownload
