Ireland will become the first eurozone country to exit a stringent bailout programme this weekend, as the €85bn (£72bn) loan facility orchestrated by the International Monetary Fund, the European commission and the European Central Bank formally expires. As Irish government ministers prepared to mark the bailout exit on Friday morning, the vice president of the European Union said it was a mistake that the state gave a blanket guarantee to the country's debt ridden banks – precipitating a rescue call to the troika that rescued Ireland from collapse. Olli Rehn told Irish television that he had been shocked by the level of banking debt that almost dragged the country over the financial precipice before its bailout was secured in November 2010. Although the guarantee to shore up the banks that lent billions to property speculators was "water under the bridge", Rehn said it had been wrong to give them so much money. The Fine Gael-Labour government will talk up the departure from the bailout programme as evidence that its austerity programme has been successful in restoring international confidence in Ireland. But Sinn Fein's finance spokesman, Pearse Doherty, said that while the troika of IMF, EU and ECB officials were leaving Dublin, "the troika mindset remains firm in Government Buildings". Doherty predicted that there would be further austerity cuts long after the bailout programme was over and the troika had gone. "They bailed out the banks and unfortunately over the three years it was the Irish people that suffered," he said. The general mood in Dublin remains one of resignation after three years of cuts in social welfare and state programmes with no visible euphoria on the streets. Michael McMorrow, a self-employed Dubliner, said: "It does appear that there are small signs of improvement – unemployment going down a little, property market starting to move a little, dormant shop units waking up a little, the tide of new charity shops in Dun Laoghaire slowing down a little. "But, scratch the surface and we're petrified that at any moment it'll all come crashing down again with the next instalment of financial or banking chaos. It still feels that we've no control and that we're just biding our time until the forces that have savaged our savings, our salaries and our security fly out of control again." He added: "I'd love to believe that leaving the bailout is genuinely a step into the light, and maybe it is, but I'm too scarred to raise my hopes just yet." Enda Kenny, the country's prime minister, will make a live televised address to the public on Sunday night after a weekend of frenetic government activity as the coalition tries to emphasize the importance of the bailout exit. Richard Bruton, the Irish employment minister, is emphasizing Ireland's strength in the hi-tech and food sector as evidence of the Republic exporting its way out of the crisis. In an address inside Government Buildings, Bruton said the government has created €2.5bn in loans for new businesses to fill the void created by Irish banks reluctant to lend to SMEs and entrepreneurs. Bruton described enterprises and workers as the "true heroes" who battled their way through the economic crisis. He said that the fact Intel's new chip was manufactured in Ireland was a "mark of the journey" Ireland had been on over the past three years. The minister said that over the past 12 months there had been a 4% increase in private sector employment but acknowledged that unemployment was still high at 12.5% of the overall workforce. On the taxpayer-rescued Irish banks, Bruton accepted that the banking sector was "not lending to the levels that we would like". He said bank refusal rates on loans to businesses were still high compared with other parts of Europe. Bruton, however, stressed that refusal rates over the last two and a half years had fallen from 30% to 20%. The banks are some of the biggest hate figures among the general population after tens of billions of euros were pumped into a sector that got into lethal debt levels because they were lending vast sums to builders and property speculators. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
