Just before 3 p.m. on April 15, Bauman was waiting amongthe crowd for his girlfriend to cross the finish line at theBoston Marathon. A man wearing a cap, sunglasses and a blackjacket over a hooded sweatshirt looked at Jeff, 27, and droppeda bag at his feet, his brother, Chris Bauman, said in aninterview.  Two and a half minutes later, the bag exploded, tearingJeff’s legs apart. A picture of him in a wheelchair, bloodiedand ashen, was broadcast around the world as he was rushed toBoston Medical Center. He lost both legs below the knee.  “He woke up under so much drugs, asked for a paper and penand wrote, ‘bag, saw the guy, looked right at me,’” ChrisBauman said yesterday in an interview.  Those words may have helped crack the mystery of whoperpetrated one of the highest-profile acts of terror in theU.S. since the 2001 assault on New York City and the Washingtonarea, one that killed three people and wounded scores.  The Boston area was on lockdown this morning after lawenforcement officials killed one suspect in the bombing and werehunting another, following a night of violent clashes betweenthe two men and authorities that killed a MassachusettsInstitute of Technology campus police officer.  The suspect still at large is said to be Dzhokar Tsarnaev,19, a foreign national believed to have been in the country formore than a year, according to a federal law enforcementofficial.  The individual identified as the second suspect in theattack is his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was 26, accordingto the official. He was killed this morning by law enforcement.  Jeff Bauman’s face-to-face confrontation with one of themmay have yielded key clues in the manhunt, which intensifiedyesterday after the Federal Bureau of Investigation releasedvideo images of two men.  While still in intensive care, Bauman gave the FBI adescription of the man he saw, his brother said. Bauman’sinformation helped investigators narrow down whom to look for inhours of video of the attack, he said.  In the images released yesterday, both men have on hoodedsweatshirts under dark jackets; one is wearing a light-coloredbaseball cap turned backward on his head, while the other iswearing a dark baseball cap facing forward. Both are carryinglarge backpacks.  “I’ve had many times alone with him, and yes, he told meevery single detail,” Chris Bauman said.  Paul Bresson, an FBI spokesman in Washington, declined tocomment on specific tips in the investigation. Two FBI agentsinterviewed at the Boston office declined to confirm or deny theaccount.  Jeff Bauman wouldn’t be the last to look into the eyes ofone of the suspects. The hunt for the brothers touched off chaosand violence overnight that included a convenience store robberyand carjacking that escalated into the fatal shooting of the MITofficer. When police confronted the suspects, a gun battleensued that resulted in the shooting of a transit policeofficer, who is in serious condition, according to DavidProcopio, a Massachusetts State Police spokesman.  On April 15, Remy Lawler, 25, was standing with Bauman,said her father, Arthur Lawler, of Amesbury. Shortly before theexplosion, Remy, who’s the roommate of Jeff’s girlfriend, ErinHurley, moved closer to the finish line, away from Bauman andanother friend, to take better photographs.  She suffered a baseball-sized shrapnel wound.  Shortly after, Lawler called her mother’s cell phone andleft a message in which she cried “Mom! Mom!” Medics could beheard telling her, “You’re going to be all right,” her fathersaid.  “She feels guilty about a lot of this -- that she wasn’twith her friends,” Arthur Lawler said.  It would take hours before the Bauman family knew what hadhappened to Jeff. They learned about it the way much of theworld did: the grisly image on television of their son beingwheeled from the scene, his lower legs destroyed.  Erika Schneider, Bauman’s sister, saw it first. “Shecalled my mom, freaking out,” Chris said. Chris was working ata McDonald’s near their home in Concord, New Hampshire, when hismother called him.  “Chris, you have to sprint home,” she said. “Something’shappened.”  To contact the reporters on this story:Asjylyn Loder in New York at aloder@bloomberg.net;Esme E. Deprez in New York at edeprez@bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:Stephen Merelman at smerelman@bloomberg.net 
