Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve has just released its latest FOMC statement on monetary policy. Some highlights: the FOMC acknowledges the recent slowdown in inflation, but says that longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. However, the FOMC also says it is "prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes." Below is the full statement: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in March suggests that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions have shown some improvement in recent months, on balance, but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has strengthened further, but fiscal policy is restraining economic growth. Inflation has been running somewhat below the Committee's longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will proceed at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee continues to see downside risks to the economic outlook. The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. The Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. The Committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will continue to take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic objectives. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; James Bullard; Elizabeth A. Duke; Charles L. Evans; Jerome H. Powell; Sarah Bloom Raskin; Eric S. Rosengren; Jeremy C. Stein; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against the action was Esther L. George, who was concerned that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation expectations. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL: Heads up! The Federal Reserve announces the FOMC's latest decision on monetary policy at 2 PM ET. The big story surrounding previous FOMC meetings this year has been the outlook for the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing (QE) program. According to a survey conducted by Bloomberg News, consensus expectations are that the FOMC will begin tapering purchases of mortgage and Treasury bonds under QE beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 – from the current rate of $85 billion per month to $50 billion per month – before bringing purchases down to zero in the first quarter of 2014. For now, though, tapering bond purchases does not appear to be on the agenda any time soon. The main reason: a slowdown in several key economic indicators, especially on the inflation and employment fronts. BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris argues that due to disinflation (positive, but falling inflation), the FOMC is unlikely to have tapering top of mind. In fact, he says that down the road, the FOMC may even elect to increase the amount of bonds it buys under the program if disinflation persists. Harris cites the BAML rates team in saying that there is probably room for the Fed to increase its buying of Treasury bonds from $45 billion a month to $70 billion a month. Along those same lines, UBS economist Drew Matus says any change in the way inflation is treated in the language of the statement is a key development to watch for. One area of concern we will be watching carefully is the inflation language. The March statement read “Inflation has been running somewhat below the Committee's longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices.”  This acknowledged that the recent dip in inflation was caused by energy prices - which are usually thought to be a boon to the economy - and placed the emphasis on core inflation. However, comments by some Fed officials have suggested the recent dip is a cause for concern. We believe that the statement will reflect the view of the Chairman and, as such, any change in the statement language may suggest an accommodative Fed for longer. Markets may already be pricing in such an outcome. "Ahead of the release of the FOMC statement today, investors will look for indications that the disappointing US data of late may have changed the policy outlook for the coming months," says Citi strategist Valentin Marinov. "We think that the FX markets are already leaning towards a more dovish Fed statement today with the dollar losing ground against EUR, JPY and GBP." We will have the full statement LIVE at 2 PM ET. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; FREE AppDownload
