CNBCJeff Gundlach of DoubleLine Funds just hosted a webcast to update us on the state of the crazy global financial markets. Gundlach holds these calls every few months, but this is the second call this month. Indeed, he gave the public almost no advanced notice. He spent some time defending his bullish call on Treasuries. During his June 6 webcast, he predicted that the 10-year yield would probably end the year at 1.7%. He was also quoted saying that it would not go above 2.5%. Even as rates surged, Gundlach doubled down last week and told CNBC that Treasuries were "the one place" to make money. Currently, the 10-year yield is at 2.48%, and it was as high as 2.62% earlier this week. People who'll be disappointed... what they're fleeing from &mdash; Treasuries &mdash; will be a top performer. Core PCE is low. "There is no inflation." It could go to $1,000 on momentum. "If you want to play it contrarian" you may want to play gold or silver. Virtually every commodity is down. This sell-off has nothing to do with inflation.  It's indicative of financial trouble. They reduce GDP and inflation forecasts, yet they emphasize monetary policy is data dependent. So, it's "odd" to stress reducing QE. "Markets are not freaking out because of Treasuries. I think it's the other way around." It starts off with some leveragged players taking risk off.&nbsp; Interest rates rise, margins calls come, and you get a liquidation momentum cycle. Mortgage rates are surging. The national average 30-year rate is at 4.57%. The home affordability equation is radically changing. Rates got this high because of the liquidation cycle. I don't think you can say Treasuries are the problem. They are the tail, not the dog. When inflation is stable duration (or bond risk) is long. "TIPS are probably the worst asset class in the United States." Bernanke doesn't think it's bad. But if mortage rates surge, etc... If you think interest rates are rising, you're probably moving into cash. Gold probably has 20% downside, 50% upside. But will probably go down before going up. ----- If you own no gold, starting to buy now makes sense.&nbsp; "I don't own much gold at all" It's a personalized decision. Product innovator isn't there. But the company is a big cash generator. "I think people have foolishly redeemed bond funds." ----- DoubleLine Funds have had liquidity buffers in anticipation of volatility. Don't ignore Shibor. Gundlach is long the Nikkei. FREE AppDownload
