Junko Kimura/Getty ImagesUPDATE: ISM's April manufacturing report is out. The headline index fell to 50.7 from last month's 51.3 reading. However, market economists predicted a bigger drop to 50.5. The new orders sub-component of the index rose to 52.3 from 51.4 and the production sub-component rose to 53.5 from 52.2. The employment sub-component of the index, however, fell to 50.2 from last month's 54.2 reading. Below is a summary of the data from the release: (Tempe, Arizona) — Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in April for the fifth consecutive month, and the overall economy grew for the 47th consecutive month, say the nation's supply executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business®. The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management™ Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The PMI™ registered 50.7 percent, a decrease of 0.6 percentage point from March's reading of 51.3 percent, indicating expansion in manufacturing for the fifth consecutive month, but at the lowest rate of the year. The New Orders Index increased in April by 0.9 percentage point to 52.3 percent, and the Production Index increased by 1.3 percentage points to 53.5 percent. The Employment Index registered 50.2 percent, a decrease of 4 percentage points compared to March's reading of 54.2 percent. The Prices Index registered 50 percent, decreasing 4.5 percentage points from March, indicating that overall raw materials prices remained unchanged from last month. Comments from the panel indicate a range of strong/steady growth, to flat/declining volumes, depending upon the particular industry." Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 14 are reporting growth in April in the following order: Furniture &amp; Related Products; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Paper Products; Machinery; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Transportation Equipment; and Computer &amp; Electronic Products. The three industries reporting contraction in April are: Wood Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; and Chemical Products. And a look at what survey respondents are saying: Finally, here is a full breakdown of the sub-components of the index: ISM Click here for the full release &gt;   FREE AppDownload
