Note: This piece was originally published on April 16. A “Reversal” Sort of Morning So far everything that went down is up and everything that went up is down. Not surprising given the magnitude of some of the moves and how unexpected they were. Was yesterday the start of a bigger move down for risk assets, or just a one-day blip as equities attempt to resume their QE-fueled rally? I think we have more downside ahead of us, but what concerns me more is that the downside may be larger than we realize because of how the market dynamics are playing out. ETF Flows Matter For some time now, people have speculated what would happen if “retail” pulls out of “ETFs” and “fixed income ETFs” in particular. That question is too broad and has too much of an agenda. For many of the big ETFs, assuming that they are “retail” flows is wrong as they are institutional as well. The “flows” in big liquid products don’t make much of a difference. On things like SPY, it doesn’t matter much as SPY flows could be moving in or out of single stocks, sector ETFs, futures contracts, etc. Even Treasury ETF flows signal little as they are a blip on the radar screen relative to actual Treasury trading. So it is only in thinly-traded, isolated asset classes that this should be more of a concern. And I think we have seen that in gold. Is GLD The First “ETF Lead Death Spiral”? We all know what gold did.          Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg In 2 days it gave up gains that took over 2 years to accumulate. It is down 13% in two days.  What triggered the move? There are all sorts of explanations: It is hard to pinpoint the “catalyst” but the ensuing steps have seemed all too predictable. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg  There are now fewer shares outstanding than at any time in the past 2 years. The outflows accelerated during the crash. The interesting part is that the NAV is "cheap." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg  So the “arb” would be to buy the ETF and sell more gold. It is cheaper to own gold outright than via the ETF and the “arb” appears rather large now. This NAV is tricky, not because it is hard to value, but because the volatility is so great – but it is a decent signal. While in theory buying the ETF and selling gold is risk neutral, we have argued that this act is actually negative. That the “underlying” asset, when relatively illiquid, has a bigger impact on the direction than the ETF. We will send the “ETF death spiral” article along in a separate e-mail, but that is our strong view. That “cheapness” in a down market is bad, as we saw it time and again in CDX indices. Hedge Funds Need To Be Involved Too If it was just ETFs and some retail money, then it wouldn’t be so bad. The real problem comes from hedge funds. While mom and pop and the die hards might sit on their gold holdings, hedge funds don’t have that luxury. Funds have monthly and quarterly performance targets. Watching a market meltdown doesn’t bring out buyers, it forces selling. This is especially true in assets that have seen “mission creep”. It is one thing for a commodity focused hedge fund to lose on gold. It isn’t even so bad if a global macro fund does, but the problem is when funds that really don’t have much business being in gold have added positions. As a “hedge” or as an “alternative”. Whatever the excuse was, many funds had accumulated some gold, if for no other reason than it was working and seemed like a good “hedge” to something. The Death Spiral Conditions Here are what I consider to be conditions for a “death spiral” to occur: It is those three conditions that I think interact to make for big, fast, price swings. The ETF has given the “illusion” of liquidity. More people participate in the asset than would otherwise, and not just retail. Institutions get sucked into it as well. Then everyone owns the same assets and needs to sell at the same time. Whatever catalyst starts the selling, there are real sellers whose fundamental view has changed, and then forced sellers, who have to manage their daily returns. Finally, either because of the “arb” or because investors flock to the only place to get liquidity the ETF) we see continued selling in the underlying, dragging the ETF ever lower. Sound Familiar? I see nothing fundamentally wrong with high yield. I think the economy is not as strong as people think, and credit risk is underpriced, but nothing major. I wouldn’t expect more than a couple point pullback. A 2% move in high yield is nothing to get excited about. What does concern me is that some of the things that seemed to hit gold are applicable here. I can’t find anyone who would argue that HYG and JNK aren’t major factors in the high yield space. BKLN while smaller, has also taken a greater role in the leveraged loan flows. Even EMB is noticeable in the EM space. So you have 3 asset categories that I think fit the description of being relatively illiquid, with no direct substitute (except each other) that are impacted by ETF flows. While NAV is vague sometimes on fixed income ETFs like these, I am seeing each and every one of these ETFs trade at a discount. The discount is 0.25% for BKLN and 0.6% for JNK according to Bloomberg. Again, I take these NAV calculations with a grain of salt on a day like yesterday, but it is a concern. Then there is the “hedge fund” factor. If you are trying to make 10% in a 5% yield world, you need to be levered 2:1 or more. It is simple math. You could be short, but anyone short has probably been stopped out, so the reality is “credit hedge funds” are long. The bears are long and nervous. The bulls are long and have already booked the next 8 months of carry. Then there are the investors who have stretched into high yield. Vol people playing the options market, IG focused investors dabbling. The search for yield has been all encompassing leaving many with positions outside of their core focus.  Will any of these markets play out like gold? Will the Mexican homebuilder (GEO that dropped 50 points) have an impact? Will concerns in Brazil have an impact? We had asked the question, "Does HY ever sell off due to credit concerns ?" a couple of weeks ago. That question seems very relevant today. The risk/reward seems skewed to the downside. Neither fundamentals nor technical can drive any of these markets much higher in price. While fundamentals shouldn’t drag them much lower, technicals could and I don’t think that is priced in. Relative Value versus Positioning Watch for risk management groups to run some numbers on gold and come up with higher VAR calculations across risk assets. Precious metals will see risk limits reduced. So will other commodities, but it wouldn’t surprise me to see “stress” calculations that force funds to cut back on exposure, or at very least will limit them from buying the dip. These are our thoughts on how and why gold could have moved so much. Relative Value versus Positioning TF Market Advisors We remain bearish here. Fundamentals have deteriorated for most asset classes, and we are seeing many assets positioned to extreme mismatches of sentiment. Views &amp; Positioning US Stocks We remain short US stocks with a target of 1,500. The morning bounce is strong as QE, which has failed to help the economy continues to be touted as saving the economy. Maybe it will, but this market is built on the faith in QE and if that faith is lost, well, look out. Treasuries We remain long treasuries here with a 1.6% target on the 10 year and a 2.75% target on the long bond. We like the 10 year trade better than the long bond as less “fear” is needed to support the 10 year. We are watching the yen trade carefully. We adjusted our targets lower in part because we saw a change in global investing philosophy based on continued yen devaluation and we aren’t sure if that will occur. Credit Markets We now recommend IG19 CDS long versus short HY ETF on a 4:1 ratio. That ratio is lower than we had last week when we were more aggressively positioned. I think we are on the cusp of a “pain” trade here where investors are long bonds and short CDS and are going to be wondering where the bid for bonds went, and why there is still no bid for CDS. This trade still does better in a “risk on” world, but I think can do surprisingly well in a “risk off” world given some price action in other worlds. Europe We continue to recommend being short 10 year Italian bonds. It has been a bad trade as yields have rallied back as part of the global bid for sovereign debt, but the rationale remains the same, there is no OMT, EU is having difficulty, and Italy itself has problems and no real political leadership. We are looking at potential shorts in French bonds, and longs in Spanish and Italian stocks, but are not comfortable yet. Japan We are neutral Japan and China. We had dropped our long Nikkei recommendation last week and the market is now lower than where we closed that trade out. We got comfortable last week with a view that the yen would not break 100 and with all the strange price action, we are looking at long Chinese stocks versus short Japanese stocks as a trade, but are analyzing various currency scenarios before recommending that. IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES This writing discusses general market activity, industry or sector trends or other broad-based economic, market or political conditions and is provided for general information purposes, education purposes and entertainment purposes only.  Nothing contained herein should be relied upon for any other purpose, including making investment decisions.  It is not, and is not intended to be, a research report, a recommendation or investment advice, as it does not constitute a substantive research or analysis, nor an offer to sell or the solicitation of offers to buy any product or service in any jurisdiction.  It does not take into the account the particular investment objectives, restrictions, tax and financial situations or other needs of any specific client or potential client.  In addition, the information is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision.  Any investment decision about buying securities or other assets should only be made after consulting appropriate tax, legal, financial and any other relevant advisors.  This writing is for institutional investors only and is not for retail investors.  The information and opinions herein are current only as of the date appearing on the cover or on the date upon which the writing was originally sent or posted on the website.  Economic, financial and market assumptions and forecasts are subject to high levels of uncertainty that may affect actual performance and may change instantaneously and materially as market, financial, economic, political, regulatory or other conditions change.  Any past performance is not indicative of future performance or results which may vary significantly.  The value of any investment can decrease in price as well as go up in price and future returns are, in no way, guaranteed nor assumed.  All information herein, including statements of fact, opinion and forecasts, do not provide any assurance or guarantee as to returns that may be realized from investment in any securities or other assets.  This writing is the opinion of the author and TF Market Advisors, LLC, and does not provide or purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and provides only a limited view of a particular market.  TF Market Advisors, LLC, depends upon third parties such as Bloomberg LP to provide data and information which we believe to be reliable.  TF Market Advisors, LLC, is not a broker-dealer nor investment advisor and does not sell securities nor advise individual clients based on specialized needs.  TF Market Advisors, LLC, does not advise on the suitability of any trade or investment and provides no legal, tax or other type of advice. This article originally appeared at TF Market Advisors.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
