YoutubeNike just reported earnings, and shares are surging. The footwear and apparel maker reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.73 versus analysts' expectations of $0.67 per share. Revenue from continuing operations came in at $6.19 billion, a bit less than the $6.23 billion expected. Global futures orders, stripping out currency effects, were up 7 percent in the quarter. Analysts expected orders to rise only 4.7 percent. Shares are up more than 6 percent in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the release. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; ------------------------------------------------- BEAVERTON, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- NIKE, Inc. (NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2013 third quarter ended February 28, 2013. For continuing operations, strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands propelled double-digit revenue growth on a currency neutral basis, and diluted earnings per share grew faster than revenue due to gross margin expansion, a lower tax rate and a lower average share count. "Our team delivered strong results in Q3. We did it with a relentless flow of innovation into our key categories," said Mark Parker, President and CEO of NIKE, Inc. "Given the diversity of our portfolio, we're able to capture big opportunities that drive sustainable, profitable growth. At the same time we continue to invest in new ways to enhance athletic performance, build strong consumer communities, and improve how we design and manufacture our products. That’s how we increase our potential and drive shareholder value."* Third Quarter Continuing Operations Income Statement Review February 28, 2013 Balance Sheet Review for Continuing Operations Share Repurchases During the third quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 4.9 million shares for approximately $253 million as part of the four-year, $8 billion program approved by the Board of Directors in September 2012. As of the end of the third quarter, a total of 11.1 million shares were repurchased under this program at a cost of approximately $548 million. Futures Orders As of the end of the quarter, worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from March through July 2013 totaled $9.9 billion, 6 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 7 percent.* Discontinued Operations The Company continually evaluates its existing portfolio of businesses to ensure resources are invested in those businesses that are accretive to the NIKE Brand, and represent the largest growth potential and highest returns. On May 31, 2012, the Company announced its intention to divest of the Umbro and Cole Haan businesses, allowing the Company to focus resources on driving growth in the NIKE, Jordan, Converse and Hurley brands. As previously announced, the Company completed the sale of certain assets of the Umbro brand during the second quarter ended November 30, 2012 and recorded a loss on the sale of these assets of $107 million, net of tax, that was included in the net loss from discontinued operations for the second fiscal quarter of 2013. On February 1, 2013, the Company completed the sale of Cole Haan to Apax Partners for an agreed upon purchase price of $570 million and received at closing $561 million, net of $9 million of purchase price adjustments. For the third quarter ended February 28, 2013, the Company recorded a gain on sale of $231 million, net of tax, representing the sales price less the asset value of Cole Haan and other miscellaneous charges. For the third quarter of 2013, the Company’s net income from discontinued operations was $204 million, which includes the gain recorded for the sale of Cole Haan, net of tax, less net operating losses and divesture transaction costs for Cole Haan and Umbro during the period. Under the Cole Haan sale agreement, the Company will provide certain transition services to Cole Haan and will license NIKE proprietary technologies for a transition period. The continuing cash flows related to these items are not expected to be significant to Cole Haan and the Company will have no significant continuing involvement with Cole Haan beyond the transition services. FREE AppDownload
