Despite the short-term nature of the fix, news of an imminent deal boosted markets. Both the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&amp;P 500 rose 1.4 percent on Wednesday, leaving both just shy of the historic highs both indices reached Sept. 18. And yields on Treasury bills with maturity dates from October 17 through October 31 fell 24 to 30 basis points, Credit Suisse’s U.S. Interest Rate Strategy team reported. Longer-dated Treasury bond yields fell slightly, too, with 10-year bonds registering a 0.06 percentage-point decrease to 2.69 percent. Two-year and 5-year bonds saw smaller decreases – 0.03 percentage points and 0.04 percentage points, respectively. That all makes sense. What doesn’t? The fact that many corners of the financial markets hadn’t much reacted to the impasse in the first place. Never mind that International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde warned that a default could send the global economy into recession again. Never mind that Fitch Ratings put the U.S. on notice that the logjam could lead to a downgrade of the country’s triple-A credit score, a move fellow ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor’s made during the last such crisis in 2011. “Traditional (currency) ’safe havens’ such as the Swiss franc and the yen have failed to gain a substantial bid,” Credit Suisse analysts mused in a recent note called “Kicking the Can Down the Road Again,” adding that “[it] is notable that U.S. consumer confidence has dipped far less in the current episode than in previous comparable periods.” Were we really not that concerned about the thing we were all concerned about? Apparently not: The S&amp;P 500 hit its lowest point in a month on Oct. 8, but that was just 4 percent off its Sept. 18 high. That same day, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down just 5.7 percent from its own September high. “It was remarkable how sanguine our markets were,” Scott Smith, a financial services sector strategist at Credit Suisse, said on a call with investors earlier this week. “Nobody seemed to think anything was going to happen.” There was clear action in those securities that were first in the line of fire, in particular short-term U.S. treasuries. But longer-dated Treasury yields barely budged over the course of October. “We did see significant moves in the T-bill market,” Ira Jersey, an interest rate strategist at Credit Suisse, said on the investor call. Last week, when there was no deal in sight, investors started to flee from Treasury bills maturing on Oct. 24 and Oct. 31, driving prices down. And when the idea of a six-week debt ceiling extension was floated at week’s end, December bills followed the same pattern, while prices on October bills recovered. This past Tuesday, when February started to leak out as the new debt date, it all happened again. All that said, investors may be experiencing déjà vu in just 113 days, so it’s worth considering what would have happened if a default had occurred. James Sweeney, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse, pointed out in a recent note entitled “Debt Fight Test” that some of the institutions and people who hold T-bills would presumably need the money the government owed them right away – not unlike someone who needs payday to come before they write the rent check. If the Treasury failed to pay on time, many T-bill investors might need to borrow money from somewhere else to cover their own obligations. But a failure by the issuer of the world’s reserve currency to pay up on time could have caused a panic attack in global financial markets. Even after that panic subsided, argued Sweeney, if this pattern of political brinksmanship continues, Uncle Sam’s borrowing costs could indeed rise permanently. While most of the focus has rightly been on the financial crisis avoided by lifting the debt ceiling, the first estimates have emerged of the damage done to the American economy by the 16-day government shutdown that occurred alongside the debt debate. Standard &amp; Poor’s estimated that the shutdown cost the U.S. economy $24 billion, or 0.6 percent of GDP. The double whammy of the shutdown and the debt fight has had one major implication for the global economy. No one is talking anymore about an imminent slowing of the Federal Reserve’s monthly asset purchases that have been greasing the wheels of the U.S. economy. The Fed has long said that their decision to slow the purchases would depend on economic data, much of which was unavailable while the federal government was shut down. So don’t expect any sudden moves out of Bernanke and Co. anytime soon. In their “Kicking the Can Down the Road Again” note, Credit Suisse analysts said that due to the uncertainty “tapering is a Q1 proposition.” See you in the same place in a few months? FREE AppDownload
