en.wikipedia.orgWhat’s it really like to be a 20-something in an investment bank in the 13th year of the 21st century? If you read the Times, it’s a sorry existence fraught with uncertainty and overwork. “Promotions are much harder to come by,” Georgie, a 28 year-old banking junior told the paper. “They can easily work us as hard as they want because they know there are 100 other people champing at the bit for our jobs….“We all talk about this MD in our office, now 40, who got made MD at 28 almost in hushed, reverent tones, as though it were a fable of a time long ago. No one gets made MD at 28 anymore.” Well, guess what? It’s not that bad. As a junior in banking, you will have money. You will have a life. The only downside is that you will probably end up living in a bubble with a lot of other people in the industry until you’re 30 – at least. “You’re never short of money – unless you’re spending way too much,” says Paul, a City-based rates trader in his early 30s, speaking anonymously. “I’ve never known anyone in trading to be short of money. You have to remember that base salaries have gone up here.” Afzal, an analyst who’s just joined a leading bank in Canary Wharf says being a junior banker is a bit like being a university student – just with more spending power. “Most of us are living together in rented apartments worth around £500k,” he says. “They tend to be furnished, with built in dishwashers and microwaves and we can actually afford a cleaner.” Flat shares are the norm, especially when analysts didn’t grow up in the UK and don’t know London (most don’t). “You meet people on the one month training programme right at the start and then you usually move in with them,” Afzal says. “A few of us live in the Isle of Dogs, although there are some who are blowing money on living the life right next to the office, or saving it by living way out somewhere in zone four. The bank gives you a small bit of money to set you up, which helps.” Even after five or more years in banking, a lot of young bankers live in shared housing. This is partly because houses in London are so unaffordable and partly because they’re often in a state of uncertainty about their futures. “I was sharing with my mate in his late 20s even when he was making £750k a year,” boasts Paul. “He didn’t want to buy anywhere – he always thought he was going to quit his job in a year or two and go to South America.” “Everyone I know was living in shared houses even when they were 28 or 29,” says James, a capital markets banker at a boutique firm in London. “That’s just how it is now – you live with your peers in the industry.” What does the banking-youth do at weekends? Afzal says there are analyst parties. These events might be in other analysts’ flats. – “Or we get together and go out to restaurants. There’s not so much clubbing – it’s more mature socializing. We’re not like students who go out to get drunk and off their faces.” Sometimes young bankers get a little carried away. Paul says he got into debt in his first year because he was expecting his bonus in February and only found out at the last minute that it was paid in July: “I ended up with a big overdraft.” There are also stories of a Credit Suisse analyst who splurged on renting a flat off Sloane Square, and then lost her job. The crunch point for today’s young bankers comes when they want to move out of shared banker-housing into their own places. This can be hard - especially for people who aren’t in the highest paying jobs in the front office. For more of this story, head to eFinancialCareers&gt; This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
