It also outlined three “knock-out” clauses or caveats – including higher than expected inflation, and a sense that financial stability was being put at risk by lax monetary policy – that could allow them to overrule that radical new forward guidance. Interesting developments in the financial markets mean, however, there is still much to be debated since Mr Carney’s first MPC minutes emerged. Setting aside the complexity of the reported unemployment rate which is, in many aspects, a lagging indicator, the success of the “forward guidance” policy hangs on the assumption that the central bank actually has a greater ability at forecasting the future than the collective capacity of the global markets. It also assumes that the UK’s own markets, especially for bonds and currency, are insulated from events elsewhere. But, as things stand, it seems as though the markets are either not especially confident about the Bank’s forecasts or the markets believe that the risks of the Bank’s “knock-out” clauses being triggered are quite high. It is also the case that American and global markets, given the renewed steep rise in bond yields in recent days, are also weighing the possibility that there is an increased likelihood of an imminent exit from the US Federal Reserve’s own forward guidance in the form of a tapering of QE. Earlier this year, I wrote about my memories of the 1994 bond market meltdown and just how much it left a mark on me, very brief though it may have been. These past couple of weeks have again acted as a reminder of the sensitivity of seemingly disconnected markets to rising US bond yields, whether they be gilt yields in the UK or equities in India. This is all especially interesting given that, in essence, some form of forward guidance is already being practised by the world’s largest central banks, including the Federal Reserve in the US, the Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank, as well as our own in Britain. At the same time, I am reminded of the great financial market adage, one that has at least become the belief for many that are interest rate-related traders – “Never Fight the Fed”. It is a concept I was introduced to in my earliest working days and was something well worth remembering in the early parts of that 1994 bloodbath when the Fed started to raise interest rates. But I am also reminded of the comments of one of the world’s leading investors who said to me a few years ago that, on the contrary, some of his most successful periods came when he decided that the Fed was wrong. He believed that the best time to fight the Fed was just before it changed its mind about the state of the economy and moved along a different path from the one markets had been conditioned for. So, which is it to be this time? Does the smart investor simply follow what the Bank of England and other central banks seem to be telling us, and take the opportunity to invest in some of the opportunities possibly being created? Or does one go with the flow and await a change of view from the central banks? And, for the Bank and its new Governor, are they going to risk backing up their statement with action and not just words, even taking into account the risk that events in the US bond market could overwhelm that? I have to say that these all seem pretty difficult calls right now, and I don’t envy those who are obliged to put their money on the line, so to speak, to make a decision. Perhaps the reality is that the data will end up determining what the right decisions are. But, as always, by the time more data are released, the markets will already have either confirmed their recent bearish behaviour in bond markets, or reversed it. If I were a member of our central bank, I would certainly want to see another month’s worth of data before making too strong a judgment. A repeat of last month’s very strong improvements, followed by Friday’s upwards revision of UK GDP for the second quarter, would suggest a degree of momentum behind the recovery that neither the Bank nor the consensus had expected. On the other hand, if the August PMI monthly surveys in manufacturing, services and construction give back some of their strength, I would probably want to reiterate the same forward guidance message that the Bank originally laid out. What can be stated with certainty is that the first days of next month will be very interesting, as all this data, here and overseas – but especially in the US with their monthly ISM reports and the payrolls – is rolled out. September is often a pretty roller-coaster month for financial markets but this year is shaping up to be even more so than normal, notably for the so-called emerging markets. Many of them, especially those troubled with large and rising current account deficits, have suffered badly on the back of rising US bond yields. Some of their policymakers must be praying that the US economic recovery continues, but not at a pace that will keep frightening the bond markets. There is possibly also another twist. If the US and China are rebalancing their economies in the manner that some evidence suggests, then the large marginal purchasers of US Treasuries of recent years – the Fed itself and the Chinese – will have stopped buying. Over the longer term, this is probably a good thing. The return of US bond yields towards the 4pc to 5pc mark would be consistent with the signs of a healthier US economy, but there may be more days, and even weeks, when it might well not feel like it. Jim O’Neill is former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and chairman of education charity Shine (www.shinetrust.org.uk)  FREE AppDownload
