Every so often, I write about how Obamacare transfers wealth from the healthy to the sick, and while that's a just thing, we can't necessarily expect the healthy to be happy about it. When I write this, I tend to get responses from liberals arguing that transfers from the healthy to the sick aren't a policy choice; they're just an obvious characteristic of insurance: @jbarro @jbouie ALL ins works that way-good drivers pay for bad drivers; living ppl pay for dead ppl (life ins); healthy pay for sick. All insurance is a transfer to people who experience losses from people who do not. Health insurance is special in that it is a transfer to people who have high expected losses from people who do not. Liberals think this special feature is desirable; conservatives are uneasy about it. Let's look at a simple property insurance example. Imagine a state where 50% of homes are located on the ocean and 50% are not. The oceanfront homes have a 10% chance of storm damage in a given year and the other homes have a 1% chance. Storm damage always results in a loss of $50,000 and the insurer has a profit margin of 10%. By my calculations, oceanfront homeowners in this state will pay property insurance premiums of $5,500 and non-oceanfront homeowners will pay $550. This insurance market will, in any given year, transfer money to the homeowners hit by storms from the homeowners who escape storms. But it will not, in the long run, transfer wealth from low-risk homeowners to high-risk homeowners. Over time, homeowners on the ocean can be expected to pay 91% of all premiums and make 91% of all claims. Health insurance does not work like this. A variety of subsidies, regulations and norms conspire to ensure that people with high expected health costs — the equivalent of the oceanfront homeowners — pay premiums that are less than their expected claims. Their claims costs are cross subsidized by healthy people — the equivalent of inland homeowners — who pay far more in premiums than they can be expected to make in claims. There's a challenge with any insurance market like this: How do you get the healthy people (or the inland homeowners) to buy insurance that's a bad deal for them? In the case of health insurance, we use a pile of subsidies, regulations and norms to goad the low risks into overpaying so they can subsidize the high risks. We give out generous tax subsidies to buy health insurance, require employers to offer group health insurance on roughly the same terms across their employee populations, provide direct government health insurance to the old and the poor, and (under Obamacare) add new subsidies and penalties to push people into insurance. This stuff is all enormously expensive, but it gets most everybody covered. As insurance markets go, health insurance is totally weird. But it's not totally random. Health insurance has to be unlike other insurance for a few reasons: So, there are good reasons for health insurance to be weird, and to include transfers toward people with high expected losses. But conservatives are uneasy about using health insurance to shift the cost of expected losses for some valid reasons.  FREE AppDownload
