Even as Brazil prepares to host the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics, the economy has been grappling with slowing growth. Locals have taken to the streets to protest inadequate infrastructure and rising costs to host the World Cup. President Dilma Rousseff has said people have engaged in "information terrorism" through the media. But it is evident that the country needs some structural reforms to help revive growth. We walk you through five key talking points on Brazil's economy: Inflation - Brazil's inflation reached 6.5% in 12 months through May. Strong private consumption, supply shocks, "17% average exchange rate depreciation in 2012," easy fiscal and monetary policy, and a rise in import duties, all drove inflation higher. The concern is that rising inflation will hurt real wages and consumption. BBVA Research Wage inflation and competitiveness - "As a consequence of both the sharp increase in domestic wages (due to a tightening of the labor market) and the appreciation of the exchange rate, labor costs in dollars increased sharply (more than 300% since the end of 2002), matching productivity gains and then eroding Brazil’s competitiveness," according to BBVA Research. BBVA Research Credit growth hits a wall - Credit-fueled consumption growth has hit a wall in Brazil. The government needs to address the issue but it's unclear if they will considering elections are coming up in 2014. Societe Generale GDP growth is slowing  - Brazil's economy grew a mere 0.9% in 2012. Rising wages hurt the Brazilian economy as the country lost competitiveness. The credit-fueled consumption growth maxed out also hurting economic growth. Along with other issues like poor infrastructure and high taxes. BBVA Research The current account deficit is deteriorating - "The current account is deteriorating as real exports of goods and services declined sharply in Q1 against a big jump in imports." But the decline in balance of payments (BOP) is nearly done, according to Societe Generale. Morgan Stanley analysts see no reason to panic about the decline in BOP, and attribute most of the rapid decline to "accounting errors from the customs authority." Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
