There may seem only two good reasons for hanging on in a job that has become as appealing as shoveling excrement in torrential rain: i) you need the money and ii) there are no other jobs on offer. However, if you’re feeling trapped in a job you dislike simply because it pays the bills and there don’t seem any real alternatives, then you can buoy yourself up with this thought: there are some excellent reasons to hang on in a job, and they have nothing to do with being trapped there. Regardless of unpleasantness. careers specialists said you should stick in a job when… Karin Peeters, a life and executive coach in London, said it’s foolish to leave a job on at a low point. “You want to get to a place where you can leave with your head held high,” she said. “Don’t leave a job at a point of defeat and despair – if you do, then in years to come you may still feel anger and resentment because you were forced out. You need to look back and think that made the choice to leave when it was right for you.” Don’t leave a hated job if leaving a hated job is something you’ve done a few times already. “You can get stuck in a habitual pattern,” warned Peeters. “You may find that you always end up in a job with a manager you don’t get along with, or that you always feel envious towards colleagues, or that you always leave because you don’t feel up to the task. “Instead of perpetually moving jobs, you need to resolve your underlying issues,” she said. “Otherwise, it will be like packing your suitcase and taking all your bad habits with you to the new role.” Angela Duckworth, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, has researched non-cognitive predictors of success and has come up with the concept of ‘grit’ as an additional determinant of achievement. Duckworth defines grit as ‘perseverance and passion for long-term goals.’ “Grit entails working strenuously toward challenges, maintaining effort and interest over years despite failure, adversity, and plateaus in progress. The gritty individual approaches achievement as a marathon; his or her advantage is stamina,” said Duckworth in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. “Whereas disappointment or boredom signals to others that it is time to change trajectory and cut losses, the gritty individual stays the course.” In other words, gritty individuals won’t leave a job just because it’s become unpleasant. Blaire Palmer, chief executive of leadership consultancy That People Thing, said it’s worth holding on in an unedifying job if you think you’re able to change it. “Do you have a mission to alter the product, or the solutions you’re working on?” she said. “If you think you can bring about change, it’s worthwhile staying.” This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
