AP Images Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman addresses the debt-ceiling standoff and "trillion-dollar coin" squarely in his New York Times column today. Krugman makes a number of key points that are often ignored as both sides try to shout each other down: It's worth adding one point... Some more reasonable-sounding Republicans, like Senator Rand Paul, are now advocating an approach that won't cause the country to default...on its bonds. Paul wants to introduce legislation that would force the government to pay bondholders, the military, and Social Security checks--but immediately cut spending on everything else. This, Paul says, would balance the budget overnight. This approach sounds more reasonable. But as I explained here, by suddenly cutting $1.1 trillion of spending, it would immediately shrink the economy by 7%. Hundreds of thousands of government workers and contractors would be thrown out of work. Businesses that benefit from government spending and the spending of these government employees would get whacked. These businesses would have to lay off people. And so on. And, importantly, because so many people would lose their jobs, the government's tax revenue would quickly drop, thus forcing additional cuts. This is the "austerity" trap that has buried Greece and other countries in Europe. So, although it sounds more reasonable, this approach would be devastating to the economy and country. The bottom line is this. The Republican Party of my parents--the party of fiscal prudence and conservatism--appears to be an ancient memory. The current Republican Party is neither fiscally prudent nor economically literate. Rather, it is a party controlled by extremists who either don't understand how the economy works or, worse, don't care. It's no wonder, therefore, that so many reasonable Americans are coming to realize that Obama may have no choice but to "mint the coin." SEE ALSO: The Trillion-Dollar Coin Is No More Absurd And Outrageous Than Forcing The Country To Default FREE AppDownload
