REUTERS/Nir EliasThe first look at Q3 U.S. GDP growth is out. The American economy grew 2.8% at an annualized pace in Q3, accelerating from Q2's 2.5% pace of growth and coming in well ahead of consensus estimates for 2.0%. Personal consumption growth slowed to 1.5% from 1.8%, however, worse than the slowdown to 1.6% predicted by economists. The headline number was boosted by a rise in inventories. "Private businesses increased inventories $86.0 billion in the third quarter, following increases of $56.6 billion in the second quarter and $42.2 billion in the first," said the BEA in the release. Below is a breakdown of the data from the release: Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.5 percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 1.8 percent in the second. Durable goods increased 7.8 percent, compared with an increase of 6.2 percent. Nondurable goods increased 2.7 percent, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent. Services increased 0.1 percent, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent. Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 1.6 percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 4.7 percent in the second. Nonresidential structures increased 12.3 percent, compared with an increase of 17.6 percent. Equipment decreased 3.7 percent, in contrast to an increase of 3.3 percent. Intellectual property products increased 2.2 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 1.5 percent. Real residential fixed investment increased 14.6 percent, compared with an increase of 14.2 percent. Real exports of goods and services increased 4.5 percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 8.0 percent in the second. Real imports of goods and services increased 1.9 percent, compared with an increase of 6.9 percent. Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 1.7 percent in the third quarter, compared with a decrease of 1.6 percent in the second. National defense decreased 0.7 percent, compared with a decrease of 0.6 percent. Nondefense decreased 3.3 percent, compared with a decrease of 3.1 percent. Real state and local government consumption expenditures and gross investment increased 1.5 percent, compared with an increase of 0.4 percent. The change in real private inventories added 0.83 percentage point to the third-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.41 percentage point to the second-quarter change. Private businesses increased inventories $86.0 billion in the third quarter, following increases of $56.6 billion in the second quarter and $42.2 billion in the first. Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in private inventories -- increased 2.0 percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 2.1 percent in the second. Click here for the full release » "This GDP report should be more preliminary than usual due to the government shutdown, and the attendant delays in data releases," says Citi economist Peter D'Antonio. "The first print of GDP growth always includes Commerce Department assumptions for missing final month readings on construction spending, inventories and capital spending. However, because of the data blackout due to the shutdown, important information on August capital spending figures also will be missing." FREE AppDownload
