wwitv.comTonight is a crucial night for Cyprus, as it attempts to cobble together a deal that can rescue its banks via a combination of outside aid and domestic taxation, pleasing both European partners and the Cypriot parliament that must vote on the law. A meeting of the Eurogroup — which would have to agree to any plan — is currently scheduled for 8 p.m. in Brussels. That in itself is a delay from the original scheduled start. It's going to be a long night in Brussels. And now another dramatic report: Faisal Islam — the economics editor at U.K.'s Channel 4 — reports on what's being said in local media in Cyprus. Athens news agency: Anastasiades has threatened to resign over IMF plan, and let the people decide most Greek media reporting Cypriot president has threatened to resign over bank of cyprus resolution... Greek press reporting Cypriot president told Lagarde "you're putting me in a position where I'll have to resign... You'll regret this." Peter Spiegel at the FT has a fantastic report about how the Troika (the ECB, IMF, and EU) is seeing tension within for the first time since the crisis began. According to Spiegel, IMF chief Christine Lagarde has taken a hard line on not agreeing to deals that don't involve real restructuring. But since Mr Strauss-Kahn’s exit and his replacement by Christine Lagarde, another former French finance minister, EU officials say the IMF has relied more heavily on what one eurozone official termed “the ayatollahs on the fund’s staff”. They have insisted on more credible debt projections before committing IMF lending. “Lagarde lets the bureaucrats say the way it is and then she can make the political judgment,” said one official involved in multiple bailouts. “[Strauss-Kahn] didn’t want to massage it, but he was a deal maker. Lagarde wants to have an unbiased view of the situation and most of the time she takes that.” In other words, no doing deals just for the sake of getting a deal done and moving on. It's more painful in the short-term, but it may be better than the long, slow bleed of unrealistically high debt levels and a never-ending austerity morass. FREE AppDownload
