Wikimedia CommonsFollowing an internship, I worked as an analyst with Rothschild's investment banking team in Singapore for two and a half years. During this time, I worked with a newly arrived director from our Frankfurt office to set up transport industry coverage in Asia and also spent time in Shanghai with a newly created PE fund that was partially financed by Rothschild. I would like to note clearly here that if you are going to pursue IBD, I believe Rothschild is a particularly good firm to join in terms of culture and quality of your career - relative to peers. I genuinely appreciate the opportunities I had at Rothschild. This posting is more directed at what I (and presumably others) really desire in their lives, which is to create something themselves. ---- Lack of equity in my work at the investment bank ---- As early as my original internship, I noticed that people in the bank did not seem particularly happy with their lives, but at the time I thought "work is work" and continued on to the full time role. The unpleasant aspects of investment banking have been covered at great length and at great frequency on these pages. I agree that these aspects are significant and numerous. One particular problem I had was that I was being lead to work every day and every night, through public holidays and through sick and health. Sometimes I had so much work that I was actually afraid of the work - I would become very stressed and find myself eagerly figuring out the next time I could catch some sleep. However, I did not dislike the hours as much as I disliked the dynamics of the work. When you are an employee, work is pushed to you. You tend to want to avoid work, because every marginal work that is assigned to you does not usually lead to marginal income and it is not really your choice to do it or not do it in any case. Even in IBD, where bonuses can be substantial, you still do not feel that the work is closely tied to compensation, and even if you have had a great year, your bonus is tied to the performance of the whole team and other factors. During my second year, I was benchmarked as #2 analyst in SE Asia, but my bonus was significantly less than the average bonus during the year when I was an intern because, as a whole, the region (and I think almost all investment banks, globally) was not doing as well. It is difficult to feel that working an extra weekend really added to my bonus at the end of the year. Sometimes it feels like it is in the interest of the employer to get you to work as much as possible, while it is your interest to go home a bit earlier, take weekends off, etc. Last weekend when your MD gave you another pitch book to do, he didn't throw another $1,000 your way, for example. However, my problem was not actually the quantity of work. My problem was the feeling of the work being pushed to me and that I was not building anything, genuinely, myself - I was working so hard, but I did not feel equity in the work. While some people complain about work travel, I actually liked it a lot. I took every opportunity to travel, specifically requesting that I go on different client trips, and I ending up spending the majority of my time away from the office in countries all around Asia. ---- About Rickshaw ---- On a trip to Tokyo, I was shocked at how expensive taxis were. One of my taxis was over US$100, even though it did not seem particularly lengthy, and even really short trips were US$30+. I kept thinking that surely other people driving around would have been happy to provide the ride for an alternative price. I then thought of what is now Rickshaw, a mobile app where people who have a car and some free time can bid on rides in their community. Using Rickshaw, passengers can see the estimated cost of a local taxi company (which they can call if they want, right from the app) and compare it with different bids from nearby drivers. For example, a passenger in Chicago might see that a local taxi would cost $20, while Brian who has a 5 star rating and drives a 2007 BMW 330i is 6 minutes away and is offering the ride for $18. Meanwhile, Sarah who has a 4 star rating and drives a 2005 VW Passat is 4 minutes away and is offering the ride for $16. After accepting a bid, the passenger and driver can send messages, call, or track the GPS location of the other party, so they can figure out which of the 10 convention center exits they should actually meet at. Passengers can pay for the ride either with cash in person or online seamlessly through credit card. While I thought of it after taking a shockingly expensive taxi in Tokyo, Rickshaw offers value even in places like Guangzhou, China, where taxis are cheap, but often difficult to find, and where "black taxi" (unofficial taxi) drivers offer outrageous prices to passengers who are unaware of how much a local taxi actually costs. In a city like Guangzhou, you might see that a local taxi costs RMB 30.00, but you would feel very lucky if you could ever catch one on a rainy friday night. You might then see a bid for RMB 50.00. While the bid might actually be higher than the official (very low) price, at least on Rickshaw both driver and passenger are aware of the difference and the passenger can make his own informed decision. Rickshaw is now available on Android and iPhone and can be downloaded here: Android: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.... iPhone: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/rickshaw/id634023105?ls=1&amp;mt=8 At the moment, we are only supporting USD transactions, but we expect to roll out four additional languages (Spanish, French, German, Polish) as well as 21 additional currencies as soon as next week. Our entirely proprietary database of nearly 1,000 local taxi company pricing formulas covers North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. To find out more, take a look at our website: http://www.RickshawApp.com/ ---- My life since resigning ---- After resigning, I took a month of vacation to resettle myself and then relocated from Singapore to Hong Kong to join my girlfriend, who had already been living in HK for 2 years. Unexpectedly, I actually work longer hours now than I did when I was at Rothschild, but the feeling is totally different. The first thing I think about when I wake up, and the last thing I think about when I go to sleep is Rickshaw. When I take a shower, I think about Rickshaw. When am grocery shopping, I think about Rickshaw. I am constantly working. I work through the holidays and I work through weekends, but it doesn't feel like "work" because I am the one who is pushing myself and I am so keen to build a great product and user experience. For the rest of this piece head to Wall Street Oasis&gt; This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
