Sanjay Poonen has left his role as head of SAP's mobility division to lead VMware’s End-User Computing unit, VMware announced today. He's replacing Boaz Chalamish, Poonen told Business Insider, and taking on a tough job at a VMware unit that's been spitting out executives like watermelon seeds. Poonen had been with SAP since 2006, according to his LinkedIn profile, and was best known as the face of SAP's mobile division, one of SAP's big growth areas. He was leading SAP's ambitious goal to reach 1 billion mobile users by 2015. Now, at VMware, he's got an equally daunting task: To convince IT professionals to use VMware's "desktop virtualization" software. This lets any device run Windows and corporate apps over a network connection, rather than as software installed on the device. VMware competes with Citrix in this area and has had a number of executives leading the charge. In 2012 it acquired a company called Wanova for an undisclosed sum. Wanova's tech became a new desktop product called Horizon Mirage launched earlier this year.  The CEO of Wanova, Sebastiano Tevarotto, stayed on as a vice president to lead the End-User Computing unit for a mere 10 months leaving in March, according to his LinkedIn profile.  CORRECTED: Chalamish had been the general manager of the unit since 2011, before the acquisition of Wanova. He is being replaced by Poonen. Chalamish had been with VMware since 2009 and is leaving VMware to become a venture capitalist funding Israeli companies, VMware confirmed. In an email with Business Insider, Poonen told us he was "very excited ... I see a huge opportunity to help extend the great brand of VMware from the data center to the desktop." Plus, he joked, "the best part is my commute doesn't change." (VMware's parking lot is across the street from the Palo Alto SAP office.) There's a lot of churn going on among VMware's execs since VMware's new CEO, Pat Gelsinger, stepped in a year ago. Besides Chalamish, other recent departures include early employee Jerry Chen, who left his job as vice president of Cloud and Application Services to become a VC at Greylock Partners; Mike Clayville, former vice president of marketing for VMware's cloud who left to help Amazon build a new enterprise sales staff as vice president of worldwide commercial sales; and Tod Nielsen who had been leading VMware's platform-as-a-service cloud Cloud Foundry who became CEO of Heroku, the Salesforce.com-owned direct competitor. UPDATED: VMware sent us this statement: "Boaz Chalamish has been a key executive at VMware since he joined the company in 2009, first helping to create VMware's management business unit, then taking over as head of the company's end-user computing business in 2011. During this time, he has helped these emerging businesses achieve outstanding results to become strategic assets in helping to deliver on our company priorities of software-defined data center, hybrid cloud and end-user computing, including the successful launch of the VMware Horizon Suite in February 2013. Boaz announced internally in May that he would be leaving VMware to pursue his interest in the venture business with a focus on Israeli companies, and he will remain with the company through the end of August. We thank him for his leadership and many contributions and wish him well in his future endeavors." Correction: This story originally reported that Boaz Chalamish had only lead the unit for a few months. We apologize for the error. FREE AppDownload
