">Jay Yarow/Business InsiderFifteen years ago, the economist Paul Krugman offered Japan some unsolicited advice. To bolster the economy, he said, the country should embark on a course of “irresponsible” monetary policy. It wasn’t as crazy as it sounds. What he meant was that the Japanese economy was in such dire straits that the country’s central bank needed to do more than simply expand its balance sheet further—namely, he said, the Bank of Japan needed to very publicly embrace an inflationary monetary policy and let financial markets know they were in it for the long haul. The problem Japan faced, Krugman said, was that expansionary monetary policy had stopped working. With interest rates already near zero and private demand so weak that people didn’t want to borrow even at extremely low rates, increasing the money supply wasn’t providing the same incentives it usually might for consumers to start spending, thereby nudging up inflation. But a bigger problem was that investors didn’t really believe that the government was prepared to commit to the sort of extraordinary, long-lasting monetary expansion that would result in equally long-lasting price increases. Instead, the suspicion was that central bankers would revert to trying to keep prices stable as soon as inflation began to take hold – after all, the only thing worse to a central banker than deflation is the prospect of lighting the fuse that causes runaway inflation by keeping monetary policy too loose for too long. As it turns out, investors were right to be skeptical. The Bank of Japan hiked interest rates in 2000, while prices were still falling. In normal times, keeping inflation in check would be a responsible goal, but to that point, such an approach had kept the Japanese economy from emerging from a deflationary, stagnant slump. A decade and a half later, Japan is still struggling with deflation and sluggish growth, but it has finally adopted the kind of inflation targets that Krugman and others pushed for in the 1990s. Japan’s central bankers and government officials have already taken dramatic action (including a significant devaluation of the yen) this year, but Japanese policymakers are still receiving advice from experts advocating even more aggressive government intervention than “responsible” guidelines might dictate. That includes Credit Suisse’s Chief Economist for Japan, Hiromichi Shirakawa, who has called for the country to quit worrying about its soaring debt and focus wholeheartedly on pulling Japan out of its seemingly unshakeable cycle of deflation. In other words, to do things that might in normal times be considered irresponsible. “We believe that Japanese policymakers have reached the point at which a certain level of ‘credible irresponsibility’ is needed,” Shirakawa wrote in a June research note. “It has appeared, in our view, that ‘disciplined’ or ‘responsible’ policy might fail to eradicate stubborn deflationary pressures and breathe life back into the Japanese economy by fostering an increase in the expected inflation rate.” What would credible irresponsibility look like? Shirakawa wrote that the Bank of Japan should increase purchases of risky assets to convince investors that the “quality of its balance sheet is set to deteriorate.” Such actions, along with postponing planned consumption tax hikes set to take effect next year, could foster growth by boosting the expected inflation rate, which would then theoretically spur consumer spending and further weaken confidence in the yen, he said. Japanese leaders have already taken steps in that direction. Shortly after he took office in December, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe implemented “Abenomics,” a strategy consisting of monetary easing, flexible fiscal policy and, more recently, proposals to boost long-term growth. In January, the government announced a $110 billion stimulus package aimed at driving up private investment. And in April, the Bank of Japan unveiled a plan to purchase government bonds and inject an unprecedented $1.4 trillion into the economy. Investors in Japanese equities responded enthusiastically to the moves, and stocks were up 50 percent year-to-date through late May. But then the U.S. temporarily spoiled the party, with the May 23 release of Federal Reserve minutes that focused investors the world over on the eventual end of Ben Bernanke’s own monetary stimulus program. Japanese stocks fell nearly 8 percent that day, and fell a further 14 percent before bottoming out on June 13. Along with other temporarily rattled markets, the Nikkei 225 index did eventually reverse direction, climbing 17 percent from the June low through July 19, when stocks were still up 40 percent year-to-date. The “irresponsible” program has clearly had some of the desired short-term effects: For one thing, exports have become more competitive as the yen has dropped about 15 percent in value against the dollar year-to-date, moving from ¥86.6 per dollar at the start of the year to ¥99.7 as of July 18, and 26 percent over the past year. Gross domestic product rose a stronger-than-expected 1 percent in the first quarter, and, perhaps most importantly, the country’s stubborn deflation appears to have been halted. In May, Japan’s year-on-year core consumer price index rate, which excludes food, stopped falling for the first time since October – prices, in fact, stayed exactly the same as they were the previous year. Credit Suisse expects that number to turn positive in the third quarter. But concerns remain that any weakening resolve toward irresponsibility would result in the improvements being short-lived. “If the yen keeps weakening, the Nikkei keeps going up and inflation expectations keep rising, the Bank of Japan may not have to do anything,” Ray Farris, Credit Suisse’s Head of Asia-Pacific Fixed Income Strategy, said on a conference call last week. “[But] we think that’s unlikely.” Indeed, most analysts are skeptical that Japan can rebound from 15 years of persistent deflation and reach the central bank’s inflation target of 2 percent in the next two years. In particular, planned increases in the consumption tax set for April 2014 and October 2015 could seriously hurt growth, Shirakawa said. The last time Japan raised the consumption tax—it was raised from 3 percent to 5 percent in 1997—the country entered a recession. And the current plan to increase the rate to a full 8 percent might also slow growth, though probably not enough to dip into negative territory. Shirakawa said on the conference call that if the increase goes into effect as planned – an outcome to which he assigns a 70 percent probability – growth will slow in 2014 and inflation will remain between 0.5 and 0.8 percent over the next two years. The main question is whether Japan can stay the irresponsible course. Recent comments by some Japanese policymakers indicate a growing unease with the country’s large debt burden. Eighty percent of the assets on the Bank of Japan’s balance sheet are Japanese government bonds, while most of the loans on its books – about 15 percent of total assets – are also backed by the country’s sovereign bonds. With such a great portion of the value of Japan’s bank notes dependent on the value of the government’s debt, it is perhaps understandable that the Bank of Japan has been trying to assure markets that the government intends to honor those obligations, even if it means raising taxes and cutting costs. If markets lost confidence in the country’s ability to service its debt, yields on government bonds could rise and increase the country’s debt even further. But emphasizing fiscal austerity to address Japan’s deficit, as some government officials and central bankers have done lately, Shirakawa said, “has ultimately served to exacerbate deflationary expectations.” While undoubtedly sound from a long-term perspective, such discussion sounds all the wrong notes in the short-term, as the likely result would be a strengthening of the yen and further deflationary pressure, in the process directly counteracting Abenomics’ goal of boosting inflation and growth. What the central bankers should be talking about instead, argued Shirakawa in the recent note, is buying bonds with longer maturities. That would push down rates for longer-term loans, without necessarily causing the yen to rise or prices to continue falling.  The central bank should also consider buying riskier assets, such as low-quality real estate, to convince the market that it is serious about lowering the quality of its balance sheet. And most importantly, the Japanese government should hold off on the planned consumption tax increases. The recently approved so-called “third arrow” of Abenomics, which takes aim at some of the structural problems facing Japan’s economy, disappointed many market watchers by not loosening key labor market bottlenecks, such as a strict immigration policy and restrictions on firing workers. But Shirakawa noted that such changes are geared more toward Japan’s long-term future, rather than solving the country’s immediate problems. For now, the impact of structural reforms is much less important than the “credibly irresponsible” monetary policy that Credit Suisse hopes to see the central bank adopt in the near future. Just how likely is credible irresponsibility? Shirakawa noted that officials may need to see a further selloff in stocks and a stronger yen before implementing the measures he advocates. Without either, there is less urgency for dramatic moves: At the bank’s July 10-11 meeting, central bankers said the economy was starting to recover, and left monetary policy and the 2 percent inflation goal unchanged. But Credit Suisse analysts believe additional easing could come as soon as September, coincident with the likely beginning of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s pullback on monthly purchases of government bonds and mortgage-backed securities. If the U.S. tightens monetary policy just as Japanese central bankers open the money spigot, the yen could weaken significantly against the dollar – and that would be good for Japan, at least in the short term. “Yen weakness is really quite essential to the Bank of Japan’s ability to meet its inflation target of 2 percent,” said Farris, the Asia-Pacific fixed income strategist. “Either the yen weakens further on its own volition because of what the Bank of Japan is already doing, or the Bank of Japan is going to have to ease again.” FREE AppDownload
