If they had the will, one or two of them could do somethingabout it. Maybe it’s time they did.  The issue has been highlighted in recent weeks as theFederal Reserve unsettled global markets by signaling its intentto start tightening monetary policy -- at least, that’s whatinvestors thought it said. There was a sell-off in global fixed-income markets, and many emerging economies saw the value oftheir bonds, equities and currencies drop.  Not long ago, emerging-market governments complained aboutthe Fed’s stimulus policy. They pointed to destabilizing inflowsof hot money and called it a “currency war,” an attempt toexport unemployment and price emerging-economy exports out ofthe U.S. market. Now they’re alarmed because the policy isending. Such is life on the receiving end of the exorbitantprivilege.  New York Federal Reserve President Bill Dudley, a formercolleague of mine at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., once warned me,“Be careful what you wish for.” The context wasn’t quite thesame -- we were discussing the dangers of shrinking the U.S.current-account deficit too quickly while global demand wasstill weak -- but it’s still good advice.  The Fed’s shift to ever-increasing stimulus after the crashhad wide-ranging financial effects, including a flow of newmoney into substitutes for U.S. bonds. As quantitative easingratcheted up, the effects were compounded. Many investors choseto believe they’d devised a smart investment strategy when allthey were doing was looking for yield pickup. You can tell thedifference when the process goes into reverse, especially if ittakes people by surprise. That’s when another phrase comes tomind: Escalator up, elevator down.  For emerging economies, these surges and reversals can bevery difficult to deal with. It’s hardest of all for countrieswith large and/or rising trade and current-account deficitsbecause they may have become addicted to easily availablecapital. Replacing it requires either more domestic savings orpolicies that attract stable longer-term inflows, or both.  It’s best to stop an excessive current-account deficit frombuilding up in the first place; that’s usually a sign ofoverdependence on hot capital inflows. In general, emergingeconomies should try to avoid running too large a “basicbalance” (the current-account deficit minus long-term capitalinflow). That rarely ends well. Strong net inflows of foreigndirect investment are relatively reliable; portfolio inflows,sensitive to interest rates, are much less so. Among the largeremerging economies, India and Turkey are now exposed in thisway. Brazil has been creeping in the same direction.  Abrupt changes in the actual or perceived direction of Fedpolicy can make life difficult for countries that don’t allowsufficient exchange-rate flexibility, even if their balance-of-payments position isn’t bad. The reason is that they are lettingFed policy override their domestic monetary policy -- a fixedexchange rate shuts down domestic monetary policy altogether --and sacrificing the ability to stabilize their economies. HongKong is an extreme case: Its currency is firmly pegged to theU.S. dollar. China’s renminbi has been allowed more flexibility,but many would say it’s in the same category.  Is it all the Fed’s fault? Not really. The central bank hasa legal obligation to keep inflation low and stable, as well asmaintain full employment -- in the U.S. The value of the dollarand the consequences for the rest of the world’s economies arenot its concern unless they have implications for the domesticeconomy.  It is probably fair, however, to ask the Fed to be carefulabout its statements -- especially when it hints at a change inthe direction of a well-established monetary policy. This islikely to be disruptive because investors all over the worldtend to be trend followers and because so many have adopted themantra “Never fight the Fed.”  Because the Fed is going to carry on doing what it does,emerging economies have to consider two other remedies for theexorbitant privilege. First, countries with large current-account deficits -- such as India -- should focus on attractingbigger inflows of long-term capital, maybe in addition toraising domestic savings. Second -- and this applies more toChina -- big emerging economies should favor more exchange-rateflexibility and use of their currencies in global markets.  China is too big an economy to give U.S. monetary policy asmuch power as it has over its business cycle. Beijing shouldcontinue to free up trade and liberalize the capital account ofits balance of payments -- and, consistent with that, considergreater movement of its currency.  I understand that the recently announced $270 billion, 25-year oil deal between Russia’s Rosneft OAO and China NationalPetroleum Corp. will be transacted in rubles and renminbi.That’s how you deal with the mighty dollar and the Fed’sdomestically directed monetary policy. Too much of the world’strade and finance is conducted in dollars. The exorbitantprivilege has lasted too long.  (Jim O’Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs AssetManagement, is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:Jim O’Neill at joneill62@bloomberg.net.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net. 
