You don't just run around willy-nilly trying to sell whisky to Americans. We love our bourbon, we respect a good scotch, and there is a time and a place for Irish whisky — but it had all better be good. So when Wiser's, the number one whisky brand in Canada, invited Business Insider to a tasting for its U.S. launch, our response was basically... 'bring it on, eh.' The tasting was held last night in a private room at Charlie Bird, a new NYC restaurant that's getting a lot of foodie love. And the most important person in attendance was J.P. Wiser's Master Blender Don Livermore. He's been in the business for 17 years — Master Blender for about two. He's also basically a real life Ron Swanson, since he holds a PhD in wood management and brewing and distillery from Heriot-Watt University in the U.K.. Wiser's itself is one of the oldest whisky brands in Canada, founded in the mid 1800's by J.P Wiser. Before the Highland Clearances had Scots leaving their homes for new lands, and before the American Revolution had loyalists running for the safety of our neighbor to the north, Canadians were rum drinkers. A number of pioneering whisky barons (like J.P. Wiser and Henry Corby, who founded the distillery where Wiser's is made) built the industry out of nothing. The U.S. got more and more of a taste of their work when Civil War and Prohibition took their style south. So what's the style? There are a few things that make Canadian whiskey distinct. It's double distilled (in copper stills), light, aged at least 3 years (4 for the U.S. market), and blended after the grains in the whiskey have been distilled. And of course there's rye. "Rye is the back bone of our whiskey," said Livermore during his lesson. "It's our style." During the tasting, Livermore walked through four different kinds of Wiser's whisky. Now, whisky is a very personal thing. There's no telling what someone is going to like, but it should be said that within Wiser's universe of whiskies there is a lot of variety in terms of taste. More importantly, that variety is delicious. So Livermore can consider this one brought. FREE AppDownload
