The world is hungry for palm oil, but as the biggest producer countries run out of viable land for planting palm trees, the production landscape is shifting. The best growing conditions for palm trees exist in a tight band around the equator, limiting the number of places the crop can be successfully farmed, according to Tan Ting Min, Head of Malaysia Research at Credit Suisse in Kuala Lumpur.  In a recent report, “Asia Palm Oil Sector: A Year of Two Halves,” Tan wrote that although nearly 5 million hectares of palm trees are already planted in Malaysia, only between 200,000 and 300,000 are likely to be available in the future. Indonesia, the world’s largest palm oil producer, is planting less than half of the new field acreage it was in 2003. Together, the two countries supply 85 percent of the world’s palm oil. At the same time, demand for the relatively cheap oil keeps rising. Global demand for vegetable oils has been growing steadily by 3 to 4 percent a year for the last 30 years, Tan said. Malaysia currently accounts for 39 percent of global palm oil production and 44 percent of total exports, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Council. But global demand for palm oil has been growing at an 8-percent-a-year clip, Tan says, and the cheapest oil by bulk has taken market share from other types of vegetable oil. The vast bulk of palm oil is used for food, especially as cooking oil. “Regardless of whether there’s a recession or an economic boom, demand should be on a steady upward trend because of population growth and because of rising per capita income in emerging countries,” Tan told The Financialist. “China, India and Indonesia are the three largest consumers of palm oil, and they are the three most populous countries in the world.” The appetite for palm-based biodiesel is also growing. Before a sharp drop in crude oil prices in early May, palm biodiesel was trading lower than black gold, making it commercially viable without subsidies for the first time since 2007, according to Tan. Most palm biodiesel goes to Europe, and in the U.S., a tax credit that benefits fuel suppliers that mix biodiesel into their gasoline went into effect at the beginning of the year. “Before 2007, the usage of palm biodiesel was close to zero. Today, worldwide, 10 percent of palm oil is directed into biodiesel, so it has grown significantly, and it’s actually supported by all these government policies,” Tan told The Financialist. “That’s half the reason why palm oil prices, together with all other vegetable oil prices, have done extremely well.” The Situation Right Now Palm oil prices have recovered from the bottom, due to better demand, Credit Suisse Head of Malaysia Research Tan Ting Min told The Financialist. Indonesia, the world’s largest supplier, does not release official figures on palm oil production. But Malaysia, the second-largest producer, reported that exports rose 5.5 percent in March, up 13 percent from the previous year. Tan said that the increases partly reflect tax changes that the Malaysian government implemented at the beginning of the year to compete more effectively with Indonesian exports. But even with prices rising, palm oil remained cheaper than either soybean oil or crude oil, making it attractive as a substitute cooking oil and for biodiesel, respectively. But Tan expects palm oil prices to come down significantly in the second half of the year. American farmers plan to plant the fourth-largest soybean crop in history, while South American soybean harvests are expected to be 29 percent higher than last year. The abundant supply should push down prices and make soybean oil a much cheaper alternative to palm oil for cooking. But an increasingly vocal environmental movement is making it harder for large plantation companies to expand as aggressively as in the past in both Malaysia and Indonesia, Tan said. In 2011, for example, the Indonesian government signed a pact with Norway, agreeing to enforce a two-year moratorium on new permits to clear forests for palm planting in exchange for $1 billion in aid from the oil-rich country. Scouting for the Next Palm Oil Frontier In response to the supply pressures, many companies are looking to a new continent. “Companies have really started going into Africa because it’s going to be the next new frontier,” Tan said. The start has not been entirely smooth, Tan said. She expects that it will take a full decade for operations to ramp up to the point where African operations move beyond filling local demand to exporting. “It’s really in the infancy stage at the moment,” Tan said. Because of a lack of workers with palm oil experience, “plantation companies who are now in Africa tell me that they have to train everyone from scratch,” she said. Two major companies, Sime Darby and Golden Agri-Resources, have started plantations in Liberia, Tan said. Accusations of land grabs and poor working conditions have dogged Sime Darby, though the company has vigorously denied the claims. The practices of Golden Veroleum Liberia, which is owned by a U.S.-based company that counts Golden Agri-Resources as a major investor, have also been called into question. But even in the established producer countries, growers have had to contend with environmental groups that are especially concerned about the impact of clearing forests to make room for palm oil groves. In an effort to improve the industry’s reputation, most of the biggest growers have joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. The group, which also includes sustainability advocates, investors and retailers, has created a set of guidelines for sustainable growing methods. “Consumers want to make sure the big companies are actually buying from a sustainable source,” Tan said. “So the big companies put pressure on the plantations to practice environmental responsibility. It is a long-term issue – it is going to be here to stay.” FREE AppDownload
