Will stocks have a pullback? Eventually sure—but when? This past Friday, May 10, 2013 marked 176 days since a 5%+ pullback in the S&amp;P 500, tying the record for stretches without a pullback in this 50-month-old bull market [Figure 1], so it may be close. Also, in the spring of each of the past three years, a stock market slide of 10–19% began, and the S&amp;P 500 is about 11% above the 200-day moving average, as it was ahead of each of those slides. These indicators suggest the stock market may be due for a pause or a pullback.     LPL Financial Of course, as with almost every week, there are a number of catalysts this week that could prompt a stock market slide. This week’s potential catalysts include: Investing is about being prepared and taking calculated risks. How do we invest if we do not get a pullback — or perhaps even more importantly—what do we buy when the pullback occurs? So far this year, “defensive” stocks—those that are less sensitive to economic growth—such as those in the health care and consumer staples sectors, have led the markets higher, and they historically outperform more economically sensitive sectors during a pullback. However, the data may now be signaling a meaningful and durable shift in the market favoring the more economically sensitive sectors that we call “cyclicals,” which includes technology, industrials, consumer discretionary and materials. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the 10 major world economies tracks how data are faring compared to expectations. It rises when economic data come in better than economists’ estimates and falls when it is worse. This index may have stopped the plunge seen in recent months and started to stabilize—the economic activity reflected in the data has not improved much, but economists’ expectations may finally be low enough. Historically, when economic data are weaker than expected, investors tend to favor defensive stocks, since they are more insulated from the pace of economic activity, and when data exceed expectations they favor cyclicals. The very tight relationship between the economic surprises and the performance of cyclicals suggests cyclicals may be starting to make a comeback relative to more defensive sectors [Figure 2]. LPL Financial The overall stock market has only seen a couple of 2–3% dips rather than a 5–10% pullback this year, but that does not mean there have not been any 5–10% pullbacks within specific sectors. There have been 5–10% pullbacks this year in cyclicals such as homebuilders, technology, and even overseas in emerging market stocks. It may be time to begin to buy some of the laggard cyclicals, especially on any pullback in the overall market. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
