Instagram/lizheinleinI've always considered myself entrepreneurial at heart. Even since I've started my work in IB (investment banking), I have continued to work on developing a few "back pocket" ideas that I'm excited about. Indeed, ever since I can remember, I have wanted to start my own business, not because I hope to be the next Zuckerberg, but because I believe the ability to dictate your own work is more rewarding than any other employment experience out there. It remains my ultimate career goal, and with any luck, I will make it happen some day. That said, I have to say that the rising fad of "start-ups" in what has been - arguably - a VC bubble (read more) has started to trigger my inner skeptic. Don't get me wrong: I think it's great that we are increasingly encouraging young people to take career risks and try to create value through entrepreneurship. But I couldn't help but be suspicious that there were a fair number of people getting the short end of the "start-up" stick, if for no reason other than the fact that the few friends I had that went to work for early- to mid-stage start-ups left their corporate jobs filled with enthusiasm and are now silently trying to break their way back into what we all know collectively as the machine of corporate America. Curious to learn more, I sat down with a friend of mine who founded a mildly successful internet venture, backed by a sizable portion of angel investment and a recent round of VC funding. While he, as you might expect, was overall very satisfied with his career decisions and current role, he did confess that his experience was far different from the one he had imagined when he first completed his round of VC funding. Perhaps most surprisingly, when I asked him about his thoughts on taking a job at a start-up, his knee-jerk response was, "Don't do it." What ensued was surely one of the most interesting discussions I have had in a long while. Particularly, we addressed many of the "myths" of start-up jobs, and, after doing some independent reading, I though I would share some of the insights. Take them at face value, feel free to dissent, but I found it quite staggering to hear from one of the most entrepreneurial people I know. So with that, a few "myths" of start-up jobs: Start-ups, especially those backed by VC firms, are notoriously stingy with equity. Even those at the top of the organization often have less than 10% stakes in the business, and the chances of them willingly giving out greater shares of equity in a growing business (especially as time goes on) is vanishingly small. Many employees don't see their equity stake meaningfully increased even after years on the job.Perhaps more importantly, promotions, raises and bonuses are exceedingly rare at start-ups. Money is tight at small firms, and there is a prevailing belief that if the business is performing well, the appreciation in your small equity stake makes up for a lack of performance pay (though this is rarely a reflection of reality). 2.5 years after joining a start-up, my friend with considerable programming skills was still making the same salary that he was offered when he joined the firm. What's worse, he knew that at any moment, he could be fired without real cause and with no severance pay to speak of. In most cases, successful start-ups are forced to reach out of the organization for new talent as the business grows. This shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone, but recall that start-ups are often cash-strapped and pay salaries at below-market rates. Inevitably, titles become a form of currency at start-ups - a sort of non-cash compensation that is a key bargaining chip during negotiations with new talent ("we know we can't pay you what Goldman can, but here you'll be the VP of Corporate Finance"). In an attempt to make concrete the value of those titles, organizations have to find a way to keep people enough people in junior positions to give weight to the title of "VP". Since you're currently the bird-in-the-hand, founders are often more likely to give you the snub in order to attract new talent by dangling more-senior titles in front of their faces. That leaves you - well - SOL.       For more myths, head to Wall Street Oasis&gt; This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
