The woman who gave Chicago Bulls player Joakim Noah an epic middle finger after he was ejected last night is Filomena Tobias, the widow of hedge funder Seth Tobias, according to the Sun-Sentinel. Here's the photo from USA Today, which has been everywhere today: NSFW but you HAVE to see this photo from Noah's ejection tonight. twitter.com/HPbasketball/s… But police officially cleared her in February 2008. She was never accused of or charged for a crime by the police. The death was the subject of an insane 2008 New York Magazine profile by Stephen Rodrick that involves cocaine, male prostitutes, and a "300-pound gay con man and Internet psychic with a long criminal history named Billy Ash who claims to have been the couple’s personal assistant and may well have fabricated all or part of his claims regarding Seth and Phyllis because he’s a proven liar and self-serving attention seeker." Her relationship with Seth was "insane," according to Rodrick, filled with frequent fighting and coming close to divorce on multiple occasions. At one point his brother even told him, "That woman is going to kill you or bankrupt you." During their marriage, Phyllis had consulted Internet psychic Billy Ash to the tune of thousands of dollars a year, Rodrick reported. After Seth died, Ash called his brother and told him that "Phyllis had crushed Ambien tablets into a pasta sauce" on the night of his death. Police flew to San Diego to take an official statement from Ash, but were "not too impressed with his story." Seth's brothers later used Ash's story as the basis for a civil suit to block Phyllis from inheriting Seth's entire $25 million fortune.  Rodrick found Ash to be completely unreliable, and said that story — which not only involved drugging via pasta sauce but also the promise of sex with a gay stripper named "Tiger" — lacked any tangible evidence. The civil suit was settled in the summer of 2008, with Phyllis reportedly getting "the balance of the estate" and the $3.3 million home, and the brothers taking control of Tobias Brothers Inc. It's unclear who Tobias was sitting with at the Heat came, but her daughter told the Sun-Sentinel that they have season tickets. FREE AppDownload
