Wikimedia CommonsRichard Mansfield in his dual role as Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Jesse Livermore: Successful Investors Are Constantly Fighting Two Deep-Seated Human Instincts  (The Gartman Letter)  Legendary trader Jesse Livermore was sometimes guilty of not taking his own advice. But he was wary of excessive trading, and well aware of the two biggest challenges to trading: hope and fear. In today's Gartman Letter, Dennis Gartman quotes what he described as "one of the most important passages" from the new annotated Reminiscences of a Stock Operator.  "The speculator’s chief enemies are always boring from within. It is inseparable from human nature to hope and to fear. In speculation when the market goes against you you hope that every day will be the last day--- and you lose more than you should had you not listened to hope--- the same ally that is so potent a success-bringer to empire builders and pioneers, big and little. And when the markets goes your way you become fearful that the next day will take away your profit, and you get out—too soon. Fear keeps you from making as much money as you ought to. The successful trader has to fight these two deep-seated instincts. He has to reverse what you might call his natural impulses. Instead of hoping, he must fear; instead of fearing, he must hope. He must fear that his loss may develop into a much bigger loss and hope that his profits may become a big profit. It is absolutely wrong to gamble in stocks the way the average man does." Why Young Advisors Should Tap Young Professionals As Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  Trent Porter, founder of Denver-based Priority Financial Planning writes that the young professionals group is underserved because most firms require clients to have at least $1 million in assets. But young professionals like doctors and lawyers are high-income earners nonetheless, though they might have student debt.  These professionals are, however, in need of overall financial planning and there are certain benefits to working with them. First, it's easier to train them to be good savers and clients, compared with older clients that have set money habits. Though this age group is hesitant to invest in the stock market. "Taking them on when they've been turned away by many other advisers just as they face some of the toughest financial decisions of their lives will make them enthusiastic and loyal clients," he writes in a WSJ column. Does It Still Make Sense To Invest In Farmland? (WealthManagement.com)  In the face of a tremendous stock market rally we've seen in 2013, many are losing interest in alternative and hard assets, writes Debbie Carlson of WealthManagement.com. Moreover, biofuels, which were the "primary growth engine for agriculture," are beginning to "stall out" and crop harvests have been good and all of this is making farmland price appreciation look "overripe."  "I think it’s a great asset class, one that provides a nice stable return over a long period of time, but it’s not going to give you a consistent 20% return... You want to recalibrate the returns to the 6% to 7% appreciation and income region, I think," Brent Gloy, director of the Center for Commercial Agriculture at Purdue told WealthMangement.com. Some still argue that it is great for diversification. Hedge Funds Beat Out By Stocks Again (Reuters)  The average hedge fund is up 8.2% so far this year, compared with an almost 21% rise in the MSCI World Index for stocks, according to Tommy Wilker at Reuters. Hedge funds have seen returns of 9.4% since 2011 and 39.6% since 2009, according to data from Hedge Fund Research. This compares with a fund tracking global stocks that made about 32% since 2011 and 75% since 2009. "If you look at the average hedge fund versus equity or directional markets, this year has been disastrous," Roberto Botero of Sciens Capital told Reuters. "In general you would expect hedge funds to underperform in an equity market rally. But the issue is they have been underperforming for the last five years, with very few exceptions." 4 Tips To Help Advisors Read Between The Lines When Dealing With Clients (Advisor Perspectives)  If advisors take everything their clients say at face value they can miss important insights. To avoid doing so San Richards has four suggestions to help advisors read between the lines. 1. "Practice active listening" by giving your clients 100% of your attention, asking for more information when something isn't clear, and even jotting notes. 2. "Ask questions that are easy to answer." Instead of asking if a client is happy with an advisor and his/her team, they can ask if there is any one thing they could to improve their experience. 3. "Look for hidden meaning," in what people say. Clients will often give advisors "soft letdowns" when faced with a request, and at such times advisors should always push for more information. 4. "Focus on what people don't say." FREE AppDownload
