REUTERS/Rick WilkingJob seekers listen to a presentation at the Colorado Hospital Association health care career fair in Denver April 9, 2013.This week begins the third quarter. And there are tons of crucial economic events scheduled. But in the wake of all of this talk about the Federal Reserve reducing its stimulative bond-buying program (i.e. tapering QE), the biggest report without question will be the U.S. jobs report, which comes out on Friday. "Most importantly, markets and the Fed are now even more highly dependent on sustained evidence that the real economy is indeed on a solid improving trends, including a consequential rise in actual and expected nominal GDP growth," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian. "With that, the focus will now shift firmly to the forthcoming June jobs report; and it will be even more intensive than usual." It's a holiday shortened week in America.  But it's jobs week in America. "Fireworks are a given, even without minor considerations like the 4th of July!" exclaimed Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary "[E]arnings matter the most for equities, in our opinion, and there is relatively robust statistical evidence to back up that contention," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich in a note to clients last week. "In this respect, we have been a tad shocked by the surge in negative-to-positive preannouncement trends that make 2009’s surge appear less worrisome in retrospect. Upward earnings guidance has dipped as well and there has been little consternation or discussion about it." So, what's behind all of this disappointing guidance? "For Q2 2013, 55 companies have issued negative revenue guidance for the quarter and 14 have issued positive revenue guidance," said FactSet's John Butters. "As a result, 80% (55 out 69) of the companies that have issued revenue guidance for the quarter have issued negative guidance. If this is the final percentage for the quarter, it will mark the third highest percentage since 2006." Based on corporate commentary, much of the weakness is coming from Western Europe and the major emerging markets (i.e. China, Brazil, India). FREE AppDownload
