ptmoney.comEarlier this week I was reading a r/personalfinancethread (great place for pf advice by the way) from someone considering the Ohio 529 Savings Plan. I'm a fan of that plan and so I chimed in with how I thought it was a good plan for me, a Texan, since I do not have a state tax deduction to consider. Additionally, the CollegeAdvantage plan (as it's commonly known) comes with an easy online interface and most importantly, low-cost funds from Vanguard. The redditer went on to ask me about the different funds and which one I chose. I shared with him that I chose the Vanguard Aggressive Age-Based Option for both of my daughters. When studying the plan on the Vanguard website I discovered that the funds’ mix of stocks, bonds, and cash was based on the beneficiary’s age. Here’s a visual breakdown from Vanguard:  This is something I remember knowing with my first daughter. But I somehow forgot when opening up the second daughter’s 529 account. You see, we didn’t have our second daughter’s SSN or even birth date when we opened the account. We actually opened it using Mrs. PT as the beneficiary, before the birth. By the time my second daughter was born, we had funded the account and we were already invested in the age-based fund: 75% in bonds and 25% in cash. Why this allocation? Because my wife is older than 19, obviously! So thanks to this reddit thread I realized the error of my ways. Now I know why my second daughters account has performed so poorly compared to my older daughter. Because the second daughter’s account has been in bonds and cash! So embarrassing. Here’s the 2013 performance comparison: Daughter #1 (under 5yrs):  Daughter #2 (actually based on Mrs PT’s age – over 19yrs):  Now I’m in the middle of changing the 529 plan beneficiary, something I was dragging my feet on because I didn’t think it mattered. I spoke with CollegeAdvantage briefly and they assured me that once I changed the beneficiary information the bonds/cash funds would be sold and the account would reinvest into stocks (based on the under 5 bracket). This is certainly something I should have done 2.5 years ago. The good thing is that we’ve got 16 more years to make up the difference. The moral of the story is always take time to understand your investments. Even with the best intentions (like starting a 529 plan before your child is born), mistakes can be made. Has this ever happened to you? Are you invested in the Vanguard age based 529 plan funds? Do you see this as another potential flaw in age-based investing options? Or am I just a lonely idiot here? More from PT Money:  Here's The True Impact of 529 Savings Plans The Gerber Grow Up Plan: Sound Investment or a Scheme for Suckers? This article originally appeared at PT Money.  Copyright 2013. Follow PT Money on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
