FBIBOSTON (AP) — The surviving suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings is in serious but stable condition and likely can't communicate, Gov. Deval Patrick said Saturday after a pregame ceremony at Fenway Park to honor the victims and survivors of the attack. "I, and I think all of the law enforcement officials, are hoping for a host of reasons the suspect survives," Patrick told reporters outside the ballpark. "We have a million questions, and those questions need to be answered." Two bombs exploded at the finish line of Monday's Boston Marathon, killing three people and injuring more than 180 others. The suspects also shot a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer to death Thursday night, authorities said. Twenty-six-year-old suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed Friday, and his 19-year-old brother, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was captured later Friday hiding inside a boat parked in a Watertown backyard. He is being guarded by armed officers while he recovers at a Boston hospital. Patrick declined to specify how Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had been injured. The governor also declined to comment on other explosives found on the suspects. He said there was no evidence any other explosives were in the area. Patrick joined the chorus of praise for the police who tracked the suspects and captured the younger Tsarnaev. He also commended the people who rushed to the sites of the explosions to help the wounded. "This was several days of great highs and great lows," Patrick said. "The tragedy was apparent and horrific, and the acts of grace and kindness people showed, and the extraordinary acts of kindness by the first responders, the law enforcement agencies, all of it spoke so well of the best in us." Patrick appeared on the field with dozens of local and state police before Boston Red Sox's first home game since the bombings. A game scheduled for Friday night was postponed until Sunday while the manhunt for the suspect continued. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing.  FREE AppDownload
