REUTERS/Brendan McDermidNext semester, 200 lucky Princeton students will have the opportunity to take The Great Recession: Causes, Consequences, and Remedies with professor Paul Krugman. The reading list is stacked (and we can't believe that only 178 students are currently signed up to take a class with a Nobel Prize winner, according to Princeton's office of the registrar). "The course will begin by reviewing the causes of the recession that began in December 2007. It will concentrate on consumer behavior, financial markets, unemployment, and the housing sector," according to the course description. "The role of public policies in contributing to the economic crisis and in ending the crisis will be explored. The state of the recovery will be assessed and monitored." Regular Krugman readers will recognize many of the texts from his bloggings at the New York Times, but it's cool to see them laid out all syllabus style. You can follow along at home all semester. Things get a little more free-form by April, but the midterm is on March 12, kids (via David Dayen): Feb. 3: Overview Eichengreeen and O’Rourke, “A Tale of Two Depressions”  DeLong, “The Great Depression from the perspective of today” Nick Crafts, “If only it were the 1930s” NIESR Feb. 5: Basic short-run macro  Hicks, “Mr. Keynes and the classics”  Krugman, “IS-LMentary” David Romer, “Short-run fluctuations” Feb. 10: The Great Moderation  Bernanke, “The great moderation” Blanchard and Simon, “The decline in U.S. output variability” Feb. 12: Bubbles  Shiller, “From efficient markets theory to behavioral finance”  Greenspan 2004 Minsky moment FCIC report, part III  Feb. 17: Crisis models  Diamond-Dybvig Gorton, “Slapped in the face” Bernanke, “The crisis as a classic financial panic” Feb. 19: The panic  FCIC report, part IV  Feb. 24: Bailout  TARP Feb. 26: Stimulus  Romer-Bernstein Assessment CBO on ARRA Where the money went Mar. 3: War among the economists  Krugman on economists Fama Cochrane Lucas Mar. 5: The end of the panic Economic Report of the President, 2010 Mar. 10: Global spread and stabilization IMF World Economic Outlook IMF Mar. 12: Midterm Mar. 24: The euro Euro@10 Mar. 26: The euro crisis  O’Rourke and Taylor Eichengreen et al, “The mother of all sudden stops” Mar. 31: Austerity debates I: Short-run effects  Krugman, Liquidity preference Krugman, “Myths of austerity” Alesina and Ardagna IMF I IMF II Apr. 2: Austerity debates II: Debt  Greenlaw et al, “Crunch time” De Grauwe Reinhart-Rogoff and all that Apr. 7: Monetary debates I, Inflation or deflation?  Meltzer, “Inflation nation” Feldstein, “Inflation is looming”  CFR symposium 2009 Krugman Apr. 9: Monetary policy II, quantitative easing  The data Blinder, a primer Woodford on forward guidance Abenomics, TK  Apr. 14: Unemployment, structural or cyclical  Edward Lazear Beveridge curve analyses TK Apr. 16: Hysteresis  DeLong and Summers Reifschneider et al April 21: Long-run fiscal outlook Latest CBO projections  April 23: Crisis stories  Blanchard on Latvia IMF on Iceland  April 28: Secular stagnation?  Summers speech Krugman on Summers  April 30: The new normal? FREE AppDownload
