Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesAlcoa's first quarter financial results are out. Adjusted earnings were $0.11 per share, better than the $0.08 EPS expected by Wall Street analysts. Revenues, however, came in at $5.83 billion, slightly below the $5.88 billion expected. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; Shares are flat in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the Alcoa release: NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Alcoa (AA) today reported net income of $149 million, or $0.13 per share, in first quarter 2013. Net income excluding special items was $121 million, or $0.11 per share. First quarter 2013 net income compares to $242 million, or $0.21 per share, in fourth quarter 2012 and $94 million, or $0.09 per share, in first quarter 2012. First quarter 2013 net income excluding special items compares to $64 million, or $0.06 per share, in fourth quarter 2012, and $105 million, or $0.10 per share, in first quarter 2012. Special items in first quarter 2013 included a net discrete income tax benefit, the positive impact of mark-to-market changes on certain energy contracts, and a net insurance recovery related to the March 2012 fire at our Massena, N.Y. location, all of which were slightly offset by the negative impact of restructuring. Adjusted EBITDA in first quarter 2013 grew to $690 million, an increase of $93 million over fourth quarter 2012 and an increase of $66 million over first quarter 2012. Alcoa’s improved net income excluding special items over fourth quarter 2012 was driven by continued productivity improvements across all businesses, better mix, and higher volumes in the downstream business. These results were partially offset by higher pension and planned maintenance cost. First quarter 2013 revenue was $5.8 billion, a decrease of 1 percent from fourth quarter 2012 due to fewer production days in the first quarter, and 3 percent lower than first quarter 2012, largely on lower London Metal Exchange (LME) aluminum prices and the impact of curtailments in Alcoa’s European primary metals production. “This was a strong quarter led by record profitability in our downstream business, improved results in our midstream business, and remarkable upstream performance in the face of weak metal prices,” said Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “Our mid and downstream businesses now account for 72 percent of our total after-tax operating income while our upstream business continues to move down the cost curve. We achieved these results by focusing on the things we can control and by pressing Alcoa’s innovation edge, scale, and strength in end markets.” Continued Growth Across End Markets Alcoa continues to project 7 percent global aluminum demand growth in 2013 and essentially balanced alumina and aluminum markets. However, the Company sees a slightly tighter market as supply contracts. The Company reduced its surplus projection for aluminum from 535,000 metric tons in the fourth quarter to 155,000 metric tons this quarter, driven by curtailments. Alcoa projects global growth this year across the aerospace (9-10 percent), automotive (1-4 percent), commercial transportation (2-7 percent), packaging (2-3 percent), building and construction (4-5 percent), and industrial gas turbine (3-5 percent) end markets. Strong Execution The Company continued to deliver excellent results in its midstream and downstream businesses. Global Rolled Products achieved $385 in adjusted EBITDA per metric ton, a 4 percent increase sequentially. Engineered Products and Solutions delivered record first quarter adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.9 percent, the third consecutive quarter a year-on-year record was established. The Company is successfully executing against its 2013 financial and operational targets. Alcoa achieved $247 million in year-over-year productivity gains, driven by process improvements and procurement savings across all businesses. Capital spending was $235 million in the quarter, compared to $398 million in fourth quarter 2012. Free cash flow for the quarter was negative $305 million, with cash used for operations of $70 million, driven by the normal build in working capital, semi-annual interest payments, and pension contributions. Expenditures on the Saudi Arabia joint venture project were on track at $67 million. Alcoa maintained its solid liquidity position, ending the quarter with cash on hand of $1.6 billion. The Company achieved a first quarter record low of 28 days working capital – 4 days lower than the previous first quarter record set in 2012, and 15 days lower than the fourth quarter of 2008. This is the 14th successive quarter the Company has demonstrated year-on-year improvement. Alcoa’s debt-to-capital ratio stood at 34.7 percent, 10 basis points lower than the sequential quarter, while net debt-to-capital stood at 30.5 percent. Solid Segment Performance Engineered Products and Solutions After-tax operating income (ATOI) in the first quarter was $173 million, up from $140 million (revised from $137 million*) in fourth quarter 2012, a 24 percent improvement, and up from $157 million (revised from $155 million*) in the first quarter of 2012. Sequentially, favorable productivity and higher volumes in the aerospace businesses drove the improvement. The Company continues to benefit from share gain increases in all markets led by innovation. This segment reported a record quarterly adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.9 percent, compared to 18.0 percent and 19.4 percent, respectively, for fourth quarter 2012 and same quarter last year. Global Rolled Products ATOI in the first quarter was $81 million, up from $77 million (revised from $69 million*) in fourth quarter 2012, a 5 percent improvement, but down from $102 million (revised from $96 million*) in first quarter 2012. Sequentially, favorable productivity and strong demand from the aerospace and automotive markets were mostly offset by weaker pricing and product mix as well as higher costs. The segment had a 4 percent increase in adjusted EBITDA per metric ton over fourth quarter 2012. Days working capital improved by 6.7 days compared with first quarter 2012. Alumina ATOI in the first quarter was $58 million, up from $41 million in fourth quarter 2012, a 41 percent improvement, and up from $35 million year-on-year, a 66 percent improvement. Sequentially, the increase was driven by positive alumina pricing along with continued productivity improvements, partially offset by lower production due to fewer days in the quarter, costs to relocate the Myara mine crusher in Australia, and increases in various input costs. Adjusted EBITDA per metric ton reached $44, the highest since fourth quarter 2011 reflecting the impact of improving operations, cost focus, and Alumina Price Index-pricing. Days working capital improved by 8.8 days compared with first quarter 2012. Primary Metals ATOI in the first quarter was $39 million, down from $316 million in fourth quarter 2012, which included a $275 million gain on the Tapoco Hydroelectric Project asset sale, and up from $10 million in first quarter 2012. Third-party realized price in the first quarter was $2,398 per metric ton, up 3 percent sequentially, but down 1 percent year-on-year. Sequentially, results were driven by regional premium and value-added product mix improvements, continued productivity gains, and changes to our portfolio of operating plants, partially offset by planned power plant maintenance outages and other cost pressures. Adjusted EBITDA per metric ton reached $205, $57 per metric ton higher than the average for 2012 despite lower LME prices. Alba Update Alcoa continues to actively negotiate with the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to reach a resolution of their investigations of the Alba matter; however, we have not reached any agreement with either agency. Given the uncertainty regarding whether a settlement can be reached and, if reached, on what terms, we are not able to estimate a range of reasonably possible loss with regard to any such settlement. If a settlement of the government investigations is reached, we believe that the settlement amount would be material to Alcoa’s results of operations for the relevant fiscal period. If a settlement cannot be reached, Alcoa will proceed to trial with the DOJ and the SEC and under those circumstances is unable to predict an outcome or to estimate its reasonably possible loss. There can be no assurance that the final outcome of the government’s investigations will not have a material adverse effect on Alcoa. Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on April 8, 2013 to present quarterly results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at www.alcoa.com under “Invest.” About Alcoa Alcoa is the world’s leading producer of primary and fabricated aluminum, as well as the world’s largest miner of bauxite and refiner of alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics, and industrial markets over the past 125 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa® wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa’s operating practices and the product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 11 consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 61,000 people in 30 countries across the world. For more information, visit www.alcoa.com, follow @Alcoa on Twitter atwww.twitter.com/Alcoa and follow Alcoa on Facebook at www.facebook.com/Alcoa. Forward-Looking Statements This release contains statements that relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “outlook,” “plans,” “projects,” “should,” “targets,” “will,” or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Alcoa’s expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, forecasts concerning global demand growth for aluminum, end market conditions, supply/demand balances, and growth opportunities for aluminum in automotive, aerospace, and other applications, trend projections, targeted financial results or operating performance, and statements about Alcoa’s strategies, outlook, and business and financial prospects. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in aluminum industry conditions, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum, alumina, and other products, and fluctuations in indexed-based and spot prices for alumina; (b) deterioration in global economic and financial market conditions generally; (c) unfavorable changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including aerospace, automotive, commercial transportation, building and construction, distribution, packaging, defense, and industrial gas turbine; (d) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on costs and results, particularly the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, euro, and Norwegian kroner; (e) increases in energy costs, including electricity, natural gas, and fuel oil, or the unavailability or interruption of energy supplies; (f) increases in the costs of other raw materials, including calcined petroleum coke, caustic soda, and liquid pitch; (g) Alcoa’s inability to achieve the level of revenue growth, cash generation, cost savings, improvement in profitability and margins, fiscal discipline, or strengthening of competitiveness and operations (including moving its alumina refining and aluminum smelting businesses down on the industry cost curves and increasing revenues in its Global Rolled Products and Engineered Products and Solutions segments) anticipated from its restructuring programs, productivity improvement, cash sustainability, and other initiatives; (h) Alcoa’s inability to realize expected benefits, in each case as planned and by targeted completion dates, from sales of non-core assets, or from newly constructed, expanded, or acquired facilities, such as the upstream operations in Brazil and investments in hydropower projects in Brazil, or from international joint ventures, including the joint venture in Saudi Arabia; (i) political, economic, and regulatory risks in the countries in which Alcoa operates or sells products, including unfavorable changes in laws and governmental policies, civil unrest, or other events beyond Alcoa’s control; (j) the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings, government investigations, and environmental remediation; (k) the business or financial condition of key customers, suppliers, and business partners; (l) adverse changes in tax rates or benefits; (m) adverse changes in discount rates or investment returns on pension assets; (n) the impact of cyber attacks and potential information technology or data security breaches; and (o) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alcoa disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Some of the information included in this release is derived from Alcoa’s consolidated financial information but is not presented in Alcoa’s financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered “non-GAAP financial measures” under SEC rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and management’s rationale for the use of the non-GAAP financial measures can be found in the schedules to this release and on our website atwww.alcoa.com under the “Invest” section. * On January 1, 2013, the Company revised the inventory-costing method used by certain locations within the Global Rolled Products and Engineered Products and Solutions segments in order to improve internal consistency and enhance industry comparability. This revision does not impact the consolidated results of Alcoa. Segment information for all prior periods presented was revised to reflect this change. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL: First-quarter earnings season kicks off today after the closing bell with the release of global aluminum giant Alcoa's quarterly financial results. The company is considered a bellwether for the global economy, and given the timing of its earnings announcement as the unofficial beginning to earnings reporting, the release is closely watched by market participants. The consensus estimate among Wall Street analysts polled by Bloomberg is that Alcoa will report earnings of $0.08 per share, down 19.7 percent from last year. Sales for the quarter are expected to amount to $5.88 billion, 2 percent less than the company made in the first quarter of 2012. Investors have been mostly negative on Alcoa in recent months. Shares are down 9.5 percent since the company's last earnings announcement on January 8. "With base metal prices under pressure, investor focus will be on management’s actions (including possible meaningful reductions to cap-ex, asset sales, and or equity/preferred offering) to fend off a potential Moody’s downgrade," say Société Générale credit strategists Ken Eigarten and Kevin McCarthy. "Our analyst Jaimin Patel sees a very limited set of options for AA to avoid an eventual one-notch downgrade to Ba1." JPMorgan analyst Michael Gambardella was relatively optimistic on Alcoa before lowering his earnings estimate last week from $0.14 per share to $0.08, in line with the consensus estimate. Gambardella cites the same big issue that the SocGen strategists flag: low aluminum prices. "We are maintaining our estimates for the remainder of 2013 for now, but note that they are based on aluminum prices meaningfully higher than current levels," says Gambardella. "We note that aluminum prices currently sit at $0.84/lb, which are meaningfully below our metal strategist's price forecasts of $1.00/lb, $1.02/lb and $1.04/lb for 2Q13, 3Q13, and 4Q13, respectively. Our current 2Q13-4Q13E EPS estimates for AA assume these aluminum prices." Goldman Sachs is slightly more bearish on Alcoa earnings than the consensus. Goldman analysts expect the company to report earnings of $0.07 per share. "The main focus will be its free cash flow generation in the current depressed aluminum price environment. We estimate it will have negative free cash flow of more than $900mn this year," writes Goldman analyst Steve Song in a note to clients. "Based on our conversations with some investors, we believe that the market could be expecting some sort of equity dilution during the call; the most likely scenario in our view would be it paying $450 million of pension requirement with stocks, as it did in 2010 and 2011." We will have the full release LIVE after the closing bell at 4 PM ET. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; FREE AppDownload
