APIt's primary day here in New York City — where New Yorkers affiliated with a party will select their candidates for the general election in the high-profile mayoral and comptroller races, among others.  Because of the city's Democratic-heavy split, many races serve as a de-facto general election. Then again, despite its liberal reputation, New York hasn't elected a Democratic mayor since 1989.  Here's everything you need to know to get ready for today: The big question heading into primary day is whether Spitzer, the former New York governor who resigned amid a prostitution scandal in 2008, has had the wind taken out of his sails in his quest to become the city's next comptroller. He was sailing along smoothly upon entering the race in mid-July, but a few recent polls show him in a dead heat, or even trailing, Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer. Then again, polling has been wildly inconsistent throughout this race. Just three weeks ago, Quinnipiac University gave Spitzer a 19-point lead. On Monday, it released a poll showing Stringer up 7 points. It's hard to imagine that much natural swing in just a matter of three weeks without any major-moving events. Prediction: It'll come down to turnout. But really, this one is anyone's guess. And the big question in the mayoral race is whether clear favorite and Public Advocate Bill de Blasio has enough momentum to score a decisive victory in the Democratic primary and avoid a runoff that would keep him from campaigning in a general election for another month.  De Blasio's candidacy has undergone a dramatic rise from afterthought to clear front-runner in the past month and a half. One voter outside an Upper East Side polling location in Manhattan said that she barely knew about de Blasio a couple months ago, but that "he's really surprised me." De Blasio needs to earn 40% of the Democratic vote to avoid a runoff. He is right on the cusp. Here's a look at where things stand, according to an average (rounded) of three polls released Sunday night and Monday: If, as expected, de Blasio eventually prevails on the Democratic side, his likely Republican opponent is former MTA chairman Joe Lhota. According to a Quinnipiac poll last week, Republican voters preferred him over businessman John Catsimatidis by a 2-to-1 margin. If New York City's recent electoral history is any indication, Lhota could provide de Blasio with a significant challenge. New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg will likely endorse him if de Blasio wins the Democratic primary, and Lhota could look to the business community for allies against de Blasio's tax-the-rich agenda. A quick rundown of other interesting races: FREE AppDownload
