VALUATIONS MATTERWe went back to the historical record to see what average and median S&amp;P 500 returns do based on various P/E multiple starting points. Nice to see the results making sense — it is typical to see a bigger springboard for future returns from periods when the multiple is low, and vice versa. The best returns historically are when the starting point is a single-digit multiple, and the worst, not surprisingly, is when the P/E multiple is north of 25x; though anything over 16x is generally consistent with single-digit returns thereafter — whether on a one-year or three-year horizon — which is where we are right now. In other words, there is nothing to suggest the onset of a bear market, though sentiment and valuations are problematic near-term. But this is no time to extrapolate the outsized 20%+ returns generated in 2012 and 2013 into the future. Gluskin SheffThen again, valuations would have to exceed 20x to trigger the ultra-low expected returns in equities to render the asset class as less appealing than government bonds at current yield levels (at least out to the 10-year T-note — the only maturity that can really be described as alluring, in a relative sense, is the 30-year bond). A similar analysis can be done for the bond market. Instead of using P/E ratios, we used yield ranges on the 10-year T-note as the starting point for future returns. This time, the higher the coupon at the start, the greater the yield protection and the greater potential for capital gains if prices rise (since yields have greater leeway to do so in the higher yield backdrop). We have already seen bond investors get burnt repeatedly on a one-year return basis when yields dip below 2%; and when they are in a 2-3% range as they are now, median returns on a one-year and three- year basis are low to mid-single digits. Only when the starting point is 6% or higher, and if the Fed ends up being successful in its radical reflationary quest then who knows, is the bond market typically in a position to generate returns that top mid-single digits. Equity investors have had to endure the busted bubbles in the past decade, but for the most part, have been spoiled since the end of that secular bear market in 1982. The same can be said for much of the bond market over the same time horizon. In both asset classes, expected returns are going to be likely ratcheted down in the future, so the case of active as opposed to passive investing will be in vogue, and at the same time this should also be fodder for hedge funds that truly hedge. Outside of that, what happens at the surface can be expected to be quite boring, but it will be the ideas beneath the surface — from yield curve plays to credit strategies to sector rotation — that will generate the returns we have become accustomed to seeing this cycle among the major indices. 2014 TO LOOK BETTERLook, we didn’t have to endure a fiscal cliff this year, but it was a steep hill nonetheless. The early-year tax bite. The sequestering. And the government shutdown. The economists at Morgan Stanley estimate the cumulative impact of the retrenchment to have drained 175 basis points from headline real GDP growth this year. The last two times in post-war history that we saw such intense fiscal drag as this year, the U.S. economy slipped into recession. So yes — it was a rough year. Real growth slowed from 2.8% in 2012 to what looks like 1.6% in 2013. But do the math — absent the fiscal drainage, the economy would have expanded 3.4%. While there will be some offsetting compositional shifts next year — less contribution from inventories and housing and likely more from business investment and net exports — this is the sort of growth we can look forward to in 2014, especially since there will be substantially less need to maintain such an acutely constraining budgetary policy. Already in just four short years, the deficit has been sliced from 10% of GDP to 4% and poised to hit 3% in the coming year. The good news? It looks as though the budget panel is working towards replacing the severe across-the-board sequestering with more modest spending and revenue measures. As for the consumer, either the market will end up forcing the employer hand to share the income spoils or the heavy hand of the government (minimum wage hikes — not just federal but check out what is happening with Seattle airport workers now where a ballot initiative may well see the minimum wage there surge to $15 an hour from a $10-13 range right now). More money to spend, by hook or by crook, is the key to the consumer spending outlook for the coming year. Coupled with the extra de facto tax break from lower energy costs, things are looking much better. So in that vein — who’s going to be needing QE any longer in 2014? A FEDERAL RESERVE OF THE PEOPLE, BY THE PEOPLE, FOR THE PEOPLEThe economists at UBS did a great job digging out Janet Yellen’s last public comment when she was nominated by President Obama back on October 9th: While I think we all agree, Mr. President, that more needs to be done to strengthen this recovery, particularly for those hardest hit by the Great Recession, we have made progress ... while we have made progress, we have farther to go. The mandate of the Federal Reserve is to serve all the American people, and too many Americans still can’t find a job and worry how they will pay their bills and provide for their families. The Federal Reserve can help, if it does its job effectively. We can help ensure that everyone has the opportunity to work hard and build a better life. Wow. Talk about rhetoric that promises even more radical reflationary efforts. At a minimum, the status quo ... recall her March 4th comment that “at this stage, I do not see any (ed note: costs) that would cause me to advocate a curtailment of our purchase program”. But those earlier comments tell me that a Yellen-Fed promises me to be very activist in the name of bringing social justice to American families. I recall someone named Pierre Trudeau trying to be all things to all people in Canada during the late 1960s and 1970s, but at least he used fiscal policy to achieve that goal. The problem with the U.S. economy is not that it suffers from a lack of liquidity, a lack of asset inflation or a lack of inflation for that matter. It is about irresponsible fiscal policy, excessive regulation and a health care plan that seems to have many people confused that are impeding the economy’s performance, and it is tough to believe that Federal Reserve asset purchases are really an effective solution. But Fed policy certainly has evolved since it was established in 1913 to ensure financial stability as a lender of last resort. From stabilizer of markets a century ago it is now the maker of markets as it now owns half of the market of long-dated government bonds, not to mention emerging this cycle as a buyer of mortgage paper for the first time ever — in Canada, the housing market is supported directly by a Crown Corporation (CMHC), not the central bank. But the Fed’s activities, roles and mandates have evolved over time, and even though it was Congress that amended the Act in 1977 to provide the monetary authority with the dual goal of “maximum employment” and “price stability”. Paul Volcker realized that both goals were mutually compatible, not separate, and knew that the pursuit of the former would bring the latter. But barely a year into the Greenspan era, things started to change as the Fed became increasingly respondent to what was happening on Wall Street — reacting aggressively to the 1987 crash despite a booming economy, the 1989 Savings and Loan crisis in four states, the 1994 Mexican default, the 1998 LTCM fiasco ... to name a few. Hence the term ‘Greenspan put’. Then Ben Bernanke went more than a step further to prevent another Great Depression (at least in his mind) just a couple of years after he labeled the cycle he was presiding over as the Great Moderation, and directly intervened in bank takeovers, taking bad assets on its balance sheet, and then embarking on a series of QE measures to influence investor portfolios in the quest for a wealth effect that works better in theory and academia than it does in practice and the real world. And now, we will have a new Fed that seems dedicated to eradicate social ills, like a declining participation rate, even if there is precious little it can do on its own to prevent it from declining. And it’s not just about discouraged workers who some day will resurface in the labour market. It’s about a system of government benefits that distorts the incentive to work. This article originally appeared at Gluskin Sheff.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
