REUTERS/Alfred Cheng JinU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke listens to welcome remarks before he delivers a speech at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing December 15, 2006.Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke just delivered prepared remarks in his semi-annual Humphrey Hawkins testimony on Fed policy before Congress. Now, Bernanke is taking questions from the House Financial Services Committee. The full text of Bernanke's remarks was released at 8:30 AM in order to give Committee members time to come up with questions that weren't already addressed in the statement. Perhaps the most important takeaway from the remarks: the path of quantitative easing is not on a preset course, especially given the recent surge in bond yields. "I emphasize that, because our asset purchases depend on economic and financial developments, they are by no means on a preset course," said Bernanke in the statement. "On the one hand, if economic conditions were to improve faster than expected, and inflation appeared to be rising decisively back toward our objective, the pace of asset purchases could be reduced somewhat more quickly. On the other hand, if the outlook for employment were to become relatively less favorable, if inflation did not appear to be moving back toward 2 percent, or if financial conditions -- which have tightened recently -- were judged to be insufficiently accommodative to allow us to attain our mandated objectives, the current pace of purchases could be maintained for longer." The Q&amp;A, on the other hand, has mostly focused on issues related to fiscal policy and financial regulation so far, with very little discussion of monetary policy to this point. When asked about the timing of tapering back of bond purchases, Bernanke reiterated the Fed's stance that it is dependent on incoming economic data: if better than expected, the Fed could look to begin tapering. If the data deteriorate, the Fed could increase the rate of bond purchases it makes under quantitative easing. We will be bringing you relevant updates from Bernanke's testimony and Q&amp;A LIVE. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; FREE AppDownload
