WIkimedia CommonsSugar cane plantation in MauritiusThe debate over sugar is heating up. Initially perceived as innocuous, sugar is increasingly coming under the scrutiny of health officials globally, as new studies point to a strong link between excess consumption and the twin epidemics of obesity and diabetes type II. Credit Suisse’s Research Institute weighed in on this debate this month with the release of a sweeping report on the issue entitled, “Sugar Consumption at a Crossroad.” The report shows that over the past 30 years, the global average daily sugar consumption per person has risen 46 percent to the equivalent of 17 teaspoons, which is nearly double the maximum level recommended by the American Heart Association. The worst offenders are the U.S., Brazil, Argentina, Australia and Mexico, which consume more than double the world average. The Financialist The surge in intake of added sugar — sugar not found in natural products, like fruit or milk — has coincided with a significant increase in the rates of obesity and diabetes, which currently affect nearly 900 million people around the world and cost the global healthcare system more than $1 trillion a year. The statistics have certainly caught the eye of the $24 billion global sugar industry, as growing public concern about the health effects of sugary drinks and the ballooning cost of treating the associated diseases ramp up pressure on authorities and companies to take action. Sugar-sweetened drinks, rather than processed foods, are in the sights of anti-sugar campaigners because of the way the body processes liquid calories. Sugar in soft drinks is completely digested by the body without the consequential satiation of appetite that happens with solid food. In addition, sugary beverages account for over 40 percent of the added sugars we ingest. But despite the huge social and economic impact of obesity and diabetes, governments and health officials only recently started to introduce measures aimed at curbing sugar consumption, such as anti-soda advertising campaigns and bans on vending machines in schools, wrote Credit Suisse analysts Stefano Natella, Mujtaba Rana and Vamil Divan, co-authors of the report. These efforts have had limited success due to the strength of the politically powerful sugar and beverage industries, which New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg discovered when he attempted to restrict the size of full-calorie soda drinks. The move was strongly opposed by beverage makers and other business groups, and eventually deemed unconstitutional by an appeals court earlier this year. Taxing the Sweet Stuff While there is no silver bullet to reducing sugar demand and reversing the obesity and diabetes type II epidemics, Credit Suisse said there is plenty of evidence to show taxing sugar-sweetened drinks is effective. “We believe that taxation would be the best approach and will provide the best outcome: reducing consumption while helping the public sector deal with the growing social and medical costs,” the analysts wrote. Pointing to the impact of taxation on consumption of tobacco and alcohol, they predict that even the mere threat of taxes would “drive companies, or at least the largest ones, to self-regulate and take concrete actions to reduce the amount of added sugar in their products.” Taxation also has strong public support. A recent survey in California shows 68 percent of respondents backed taxing full-calorie sugary soft drinks if the revenue was used to support school nutrition and physical activity programs. A poll in New York City showed 76 percent of those questioned were in favor. But the debate about taxing sugar-sweetened soft drinks is divided along health and socio-economic lines, Credit Suisse noted. Support is highest among underweight and normal weight people, as well as those with the highest income and education level. Taxation has proven effective in France, where a 2 euro cent (3 U.S. cent) tax on sugary and artificially flavored drinks — equivalent to nearly 5 percent of the overall value — reduced the carbonated soft drink market by 5 percent in terms of volume. In Mexico, one of the world’s biggest consumers of soda, legislators are considering a 1 peso (8 U.S. cent) per-liter levy on sweetened drinks as part of a financial reform package sent to Congress earlier this month. To date, there is no conclusive scientific research proving a causal relationship between sugar consumption and obesity and diabetes type II, but most doctors surveyed by Credit Suisse believe the data supporting the connection is convincing. A Credit Suisse survey of 152 doctors in the U.S., Europe and Asia found that nearly 90 percent believed there was a strong link between excess sugar consumption and obesity, based on the patients they see in their day-to-day work. An even greater percentage, 91 percent, saw a linkage to diabetes type II. The Financialist That said, consumers are not likely to suddenly stop drinking full-calorie soft drinks, no matter how overwhelming the evidence that sugar is a leading cause of obesity and diabetes type II. “It took a long time once the first research came out that tobacco was life threatening before people adapted,” Natella told The Financialist. The Zero Cal Response In reality, Credit Suisse expects few countries to introduce significant taxes on sugar-sweetened drinks. But it might not matter. Large beverage companies such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi are already responding to growing public anxiety about the health effects of sugar, experimenting with natural sweeteners with zero or minimal caloric content to replace sugar and controversial artificial sweeteners in their drinks. Credit Suisse said companies should be taking steps to increase the availability and promotion of zero-calorie versions of their beverages in emerging markets, which could have a significant impact on the rate of diabetes type II and obesity in those countries. Data shows diet drinks make up less than 10 percent of the carbonated-drink market in Asia, Eastern Europe, Southern Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. In Western Europe, North America and Australasia — where the average consumer enjoys a higher income and education level — diet drinks account for between 24 percent and 36 percent of consumption. “Is it just a coincidence that Mexico ranks No. 3 in per-capita soda consumption and No. 2 in global obesity rates, and at the same time sugary soft drinks representing 95 percent of total soft drink consumed nationally? We do not think so,” Credit Suisse said. The Financialist Global sugar demand has been growing at 2 percent a year for the past decade, but it is likely to slow significantly in the coming five to 10 years as public concerns about the health effects of sugar gain momentum, Credit Suisse said. This is clearly bad news for the sugar industry, but also for a number of other sectors. Makers of artificial sweeteners such as aspartame, which has suffered from debates over its safety, are also likely to struggle as better-tasting natural alternatives become available. Soft drink companies, on the other hand, have the chance to “come out on the winning side” if they make the right changes to their product offerings, Credit Suisse analysts said. Unlike tobacco and alcohol companies, beverage makers have the advantage of being able to offer a healthier version of their products. Who is sitting in the sweet spot? Makers of natural sweeteners. The race for a natural, non-calorie alternative to sugar should see this market expand rapidly in the coming years, the Credit Suisse report predicted. FREE AppDownload
