REUTERS/Yuri GripasCNBC's Scott Wapner breaks the news that legendary hedge fund manager George Soros has taken a long position in Herbalife, according to sources familiar.  According to Wapner, Herbalife is one of Soros' top three holdings. Herbalife's stock is ripping on the news.  It hit a 52-week high of $66.26, but is now trading off those highs.   Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, has been at the center of an epic clash of hedge fund titans full of drama. Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, publicly revealed late last year that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock.   During a 342-slide presentation at a special Sohn Conference, Ackman slammed the company calling it a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income people.  Ackman, who has a $0 price target, believes that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will be induced to investigate Herbalife.  Shortly after Ackman presented short thesis, rival fund manager Daniel Loeb of Third Point amassed a sizeable position, which he exited for a nice profit in the second quarter. Loeb, who has a reputation for his strongly worded letters and emails, recently left a taunting message directed at Ackman on his Bloomberg Terminal about an "Herbalife Enema, administered by Uncle Carl".  Ackman's nemesis, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, bought a massive stake in Herbalife. Icahn thinks Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes." And now we have Soros, who reportedly asked to pull hundreds of millions of dollars from Ackman's Pershing Square earlier this year, taking a long position in the company.  (Fun fact: Ackman and Soros actually work in the same building at 888 Seventh Avenue.) So far, Ackman has lost an estimated $300 million since putting on his Herbalife short, according to Reuters reporter Katya Wachtel citing sources familiar.  CNBC's Maneet Ahuja reported earlier today that Ackman hasn't covered a single share of Herbalife.  Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, the stock has risen more than 41%. Yahoo Fiannce FREE AppDownload
