Yahoo Finance Apple stock fell another 2% yesterday to close at $442. It's down again this morning. The stock is now closing in on its lowest closing price since it peaked just above $700 in September. Apple is now down almost 40% from its peak. Apple's market value has now lost about $250 billion. Thanks to Apple's massive size, that's more money than investors in Hewlett-Packard and Research In Motion have ever lost in those two stocks combined. Of course, Apple has only fallen to a level that it first breached in January last year. So long-term Apple investors are still in the money.  At least for now. (For the first time in forever, though, anyone who has bought Apple in the past year and held it has lost money on it). What's going on with Apple's stock?  How low could it go? On the first question, there are several things going on with Apple's stock. Some are fundamental, having to do with changes in Apple's business. ApplePretty. But expensive.Others are related to sentiment and changes in Apple's shareholder base ("Momentum" and "growth" investors are dumping the stock, on the theory that Apple's growth days are over. And as they dump it, the only folks willing to buy it are "value" investors who care deeply about price). One of the things that is not happening with Apple's stock anymore, which many people thought was a big reason for Apple's collapse at the end of last year, is tax-related selling. Tax rates have already gone up. So anyone selling Apple now is selling it for reasons other than trying to lock in a low capital gains rate. Here are some of the issues with Apple's stock: All of these factors are likely weighing on Apple's stock. But here's the good news: The stock is now cheap. Apple is now trading at 10X trailing earnings per share. That's not screamingly cheap. Apple could certainly get "cheaper," especially if its earnings continue to decline. In the old days (mid-1990s and earlier), hardware stocks used to trade between 8X-12X earnings, and Dell, HP, and other companies are actually trading at even lower multiples than that now. (Dell is going private at about 8X earnings. HP is trading at 5X next year's estimated EPS). But unlike HP, Dell, et al, Apple is still a healthy company, so if Apple ever gets to 8X earnings, it will be screamingly cheap. At 10X earnings, Apple is just cheap--cheaper, for example, than the stock market as a whole. And Apple also has $137 billion of cash. Factor out that cash, and the value of the business itself is actually getting close to the Dell level. What will Apple's stock do from here? No one knows, so don't get fooled into thinking that there's some guru out there who can tell you definitively. Apple may release some exciting new products later this year that will get investors buzzing and cause them to pay, say, 14X for Apple's earnings instead of 10X. And that will produce a nice jump in the stock. Or Apple may be in the early innings of a long secular decline in which it eventually becomes the equivalent of Dell (or, worse, Nokia. Or Digital Equipment Corporation.) That depressing future is entirely possible, so don't delude yourself into thinking that it isn't. One thing we can say, though, is that, at 10X earnings, Apple looks cheap and is still in robust financial health. That means that even modest unexpected good news may drive the stock significantly higher. (I don't buy individual stocks these days, but if Apple were to double its dividend to a 4%+ yield, I might find that irresistible. Even if Apple is in the midst of a secular decline, it will likely be able to keep paying those dividends for a good long time.) SEE ALSO: APPLE MARGIN SQUEEZE: Carriers Refusing To Pay Up For The iPhone FREE AppDownload
