Once one of the “four horsemen of tech”, the computer company rose to prominence by selling standardized boxes to enterprise customers. The model was operational discipline and minimal R&amp;D. In the 80s and 90s it worked like a charm.  And then the 00s came, and the world was turned on its end. Now, with a $24.4 billion buyout offer on the table, led by CEO and founder Michael Dell in partnership with Silver Lake and Microsoft, this one-time stock market darling is slinking out of view of the public markets, in the hopes of making the changes that have eluded the company to date. The nexus of innovation shifted from the enterprise to consumers, and the dominant computing platforms shifted from the desktop to smartphones and tablets.  A proliferation of cloud-based offerings have reduced the amount of hardware most companies require, as enterprise customers began to grasp that they wanted computing power and storage, not servers, and if they could buy the former without buying the latter, they would do so.  In short, Dell is a casualty of the changes wrought by the successes of Apple (AAPL, $475) and Amazon (AMZN, $262) and the failures of Microsoft (MSFT, $28).  The one thing Dell has to be thankful for is that with its coherent story and more manageable size, it has a wider range of options to deliver shareholder value than does struggling tech giant Hewlett-Packard (HPQ, $17).   Dell was always somewhat miscast as a tech darling.  An operationally focused company generally does not garner the type of hype that Dell once enjoyed, but the explosive growth of PC sales demanded shareholder attention.  That growth obscured the fact that Dell was and remains a fast follower, perhaps with more of an emphasis on the “follower” than the “fast”.  When asked in 1997 what he would do if he were in charge of a then faltering Apple, Michael Dell said: “What would I do? I'd shut it down and give the money back to the shareholders”. I bring up this quote (which has been cited a great deal lately), only to illustrate the dramatic change in the tech world since those comments in 1997.  Need for a Change Conclusion Shareholders of Dell are in many ways suffering from the fact that their company was just small enough for a buyout to be feasible, and had struggled long enough for a bargain basement price to still represent a premium to the share price prior to the announcement.  But the success of this investment is not assured.  Dell’s profitability is weak and its revenue growth is negative, though the company does continue to generate strong cash flow and maintains a sizeable cash balance.  Turnarounds are messy, and tech turnarounds doubly so.  Dell is a company that needs to make considerable changes in its structure in order to return to an acceptable level of profitability.  The type of wholesale restructuring that is needed is best done out of the glare of the public markets.  The hope for this company is that the buyout will permit Dell to execute a comprehensive restructuring out of the glare of the public markets About the Author David Johnson (@TurnaroundDavid) is a partner with ACM Partners, a boutique financial advisory firm providing due diligence, performance improvement, restructuring and turnaround services.  He can be reached at 312-505-7238 or at david@acm-partners.com. This article originally appeared at ACM Partners.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
