Photo courtesy of CNBCCNBC's Scott Wapner, the anchor of "Halftime Report", has been crushing it at the financial television network.  Wapner recently caught our attention when he beautifully refereed the historic brawl on live TV between hedge fund titans and long-time rivals Bill Ackman and Carl Icahn.  What's more is even after Icahn told him he's "never going on a show with you again, that's for damn sure", Wapner managed to have the billionaire investor on his show a few weeks later. Impressive. Wapner has also been breaking news on Herbalife, which has become one of the most controversial stocks since Ackman revealed his massive short position and other big hedge fund names have gone long.   We decided to hand Wapner one of our questionnaires to learn some more about him.  Check out his responses below:  Name: Scott Wapner Hometown: Laurel, Maryland Birthday: February 15th Sign: Aquarius Personal Motto: Be Prepared. No, I wasn't a Boy Scout just something I try to take to work every day and it's served me well. Where did you go to school? University of South Florida What was your first job? Working for a very early morning syndicated business show in DC. Doing just about everything…tuning satellites…writing stories and running the teleprompter when I wasn't falling asleep… When you were little, what did you want to be when you grew up? A sportscaster. Cosell, Costas, Al Michaels…all people I admired. Did sports for a bit, but I love business news. Covering the market every day is like covering the big game. What was your proudest day at work? My first one at CNBC. Getting “Fast Halftime Report” was pretty special but I’ll never forget walking into CNBC that first day and seeing the folks I'd watched and admired on TV. What was your biggest screw up at work? Which one? Those early days in TV were pretty brutal. Lots of interesting live shots. Favorite Book? Loved Disney Wars, Steve Jobs and The Billionaires Vinegar: The Mystery of the World's Most Expensive Bottle of Wine about fakery in the wine auction business. What do you collect (by accident or design)? Sports memorabilia. Have a pretty decent collection too. A little wine as well. What can't you leave home without? My iPhone. What’s sitting on your nightstand right now? Some children's books What’s your pet peeve? People who are late. I never am. Favorite place to be alone? Golf course Favorite place/person to get advice? My wife always seems to have some level-headed counsel when I need it. What do you eat for breakfast? Oatmeal because it’s quick. What’s your favorite way to get some exercise? Working out with my trainer every weekend. It's become part of my routine. Do you have a nickname? If so, what is it? The Judge. For obvious reasons Wall Street Journal or Financial Times? Both FREE AppDownload
