Wikimedia CommonsMonetary policy is complicated.When the Federal Reserve concludes its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting at 2:00 p.m. ET today, it'll reveal whether or not it has decided to begin tapering. Tapering refers to the gradual reduction of the Fed's monthly purchases of $45 billion worth of Treasury securities and $40 billion worth of mortgage bonds. The program has been intended to stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low and credit market liquidity high. According various surveys of the market economists, it appears that the expectation is for no taper announcement today. Rather economists expect the tapering announcement to come in January or March. But a closer reading of the economists' commentary shows that there is very low conviction in any forecast related to the tapering. "No one should be shocked if tapering is announced, but we expect it to be delayed for at least one more meeting," wrote High Frequency Economics Jim O'Sullivan on Monday who's on the record for calling for a January tapering announcement. But O'Sullivan's sentence is loaded. The phrase "No one should be shocked" implies a relatively high probability of a tapering announcement today. "We put the probability of them tapering tomorrow somewhere between 50-50 and 60-40," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian to Bloomberg TV on Tuesday. "60-40" is a fantastic way of saying it might and it might not.  You can't be wrong with that range. Former Fed Vice Chair Donald Kohn used that same language in a discussion with his Potomac Research Group clients. O'Sullivan, El-Erian, and Kohn aren't alone in using this ambiguous language. Here are some highlights from the FOMC previews we've read  (Emphasis added. Translation offered.) To be fair, there are some economists who offer tapering calls with much higher conviction. We can think of at least three explanations for why the language is so vague and wishy-washy. Remember Matthew Hornbach? He's the Morgan Stanley interest rate strategist who destroyed one of the key arguments supporting the September taper calls. In his December 10 research note titled "Stop Talking About Tapering," he explains why we should just.. stop talking about tapering. Investors should stop talking about tapering and start focusing on what comes with the first taper. Most bond market investors are comfortable with the idea of tapering at one of the next three FOMC meetings. It should not matter much which meeting. What matters more is whether the Fed combines tapering with a cut in the unemployment rate threshold (URT) or a new inflation floor. In other words, today's announcement is about much more than whether or not the Fed announces a taper. What matters is everything else the Fed says. And to be fair, most economists offer comprehensive monetary policy forecasts that go far beyond tapering expectations. With all of that in mind, here's Morgan Stanley's expectation via Hornbach: While our US economists expect the Fed to begin tapering at the March 2014 FOMC meeting – the headline most market participants care about – they also believe the Fed will lower the URT to 6.0% from 6.5%. In many ways, addressing the URT first makes sense, given the proximity of the actual unemployment rate to the current 6.5% threshold. Moreover, potential changes to government unemployment benefits could drive unexpected shifts in the unemployment and participation rates. Our economists suggest there is a great deal of uncertainty surrounding how the expiration of the benefits will affect the behavior of participants in the long-term unemployed program (currently 1.33 million). The announcement comes at 2:00 p.m. ET. We'll cover it live on BusinessInsider.com. FREE AppDownload
