Blackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien has been cautious on the stock market in recent months. But for now, he thinks they may actually head a bit higher. "While the total return for the S&amp;P 500 was more than 16% in 2012 and has been 23% so far in 2013, I still believe there is further upside ahead, but a temporary correction from an overbought condition could occur at any time," wrote Wien this week. This is according to a piece he posted called 'A Portfolio for 2014', which looks at the US and international economies and where he expects them to go over the coming year.  Here's a brief summary of his outlook for the U.S.: ...I expect modest earnings increases and some multiple expansion from present levels, but I doubt that we will have another year of double-digit increases in the market indexes.  My view is that the industrialized nations are suffering from a lack of demand sufficient to absorb the abundant supply of quality goods produced by many countries across the world.  As a result unemployment is likely to remain high and capital spending, ordinarily contributing importantly to growth at this stage in the cycle, will remain low.  Operating rates in the U.S. are below 79%; capital spending picks up when they are in the mid-80%–90% range.  Consumer sentiment is likely to remain unenthusiastic in this environment, preventing retail sales from reaching a robust level.  A recent article in Barron’s quoting several academic studies pointed out that demographic factors (aging populations) and only slight increases in productivity will hold U.S. growth well below the 3½% of the post–World War II period, perhaps as low as 2%.  This will have both social and political implications, particularly with potentially growing entitlement expenditures putting pressure on the budget deficit. Internationally, Europe will grow modestly. It has slowly come out of its 2012 recession but growth will be "fragile". China’s GDP can be expected to grow at over 7%.  Japan will see growth between 1 to 2% and will finally start becoming inflationary thanks to Abenomics.  Here's how his portfolio looks in the coming year:  Read Wien's whole commentary at Blackstone.com. FREE AppDownload
