TwitterBillions of messages are fired off each week via Twitter, many of which capture defining moments in history, or in the evolution of the San Francisco-based firm. Below is a sampling of 10 memorable tweets since the Twitter era began. "just setting up my twttr" @jack March 2006 Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey sent the first tweet, an automated message saying "just setting up my twttr." That same day, he sent the first live tweet, "inviting coworkers." ---- "Arrested" @jamesbuck April 2008 US university student James Buck got off a one-word tweet after being taken into custody by Egyptian authorities at an anti-government protest in that country. In what is seen as an early demonstration of the power of Twitter to rally people to a cause, the resulting outcry prompted authorities to quickly restore his liberty. He proclaimed his release in a tweet reading "Free." --- "There's a plane in the Hudson. I'm on the ferry going to pick up the people. Crazy." @jkrums January 2009 A US Airways jet crash-landed on the Hudson River in New York. This tweet and others by witnesses and passengers was accompanied by a link to a picture of the scene, breaking the news well ahead of mainstream media outlets. ---- "HI TWITTERS. THANK YOU FOR A WARM WELCOME. FEELING REALLY 21st CENTURY" @Oprah April 2009 Talk show queen and media royalty Oprah Winfrey took Twitter mainstream with her debut post and now has more than 21 million followers. --- "From orbit: Launch was awesome!! I am feeling great, working hard, &amp; enjoying the magnificent views, the adventure of a lifetime has begun!" @astro_mike Astronaut Mike Massimino makes history with the first tweet from space. --- "Twitter Revolution" June 2009 Not a specific tweet, but an unofficial name given to a bold movement by thousands of Iranians who took to the streets to protest what they saw as a rigged presidential election and used Twitter to thwart government efforts to block them from communicating with one another and the world. Two years later, Twitter would become a vital tool used in "Arab Spring" series of uprisings in an array of countries in the Middle East and North Africa. --- "Helicopter hovering above Abbottabad at 1AM (is a rare event)." @ReallyVirtual May 2011 IT consultant Sohaib Athar unknowingly tweeted about US Navy Seals raiding a nearby home in Pakistan where Osama bin Laden was hiding. Bin Laden was killed during the operation. --- "Four more years" @BarackObama November 2012 US President Obama put out word of his election victory along with a picture of him and his wife, Michelle, hugging. The post was "retweeted" more than 800,000 times, becoming the most shared Twitter message to date. --- "Dear friends, I am pleased to get in touch with you through Twitter. Thank you for your generous response. I bless all of you from my heart." @Pontifex December 2012 Pope Benedict XVI launched the first papal Twitter account, which was continued by his successor, Pope Francis. The English-language papal account has more than three million followers, and a Spanish-language version four million. --- "Power Out? No Problem. You can still dunk in the dark." @Oreo February 2013 A tweet fired off by the makers of Oreo cookies when a power outage interrupted the American football spectacle known as the Super Bowl was an instant hit, demonstrating the potential of Twitter to adapt cleverly to the real-time messaging platform. ---- "Breaking: Two Explosions in the White House and Barack Obama is injured." April 2013 Hackers from a group calling itself the Syrian Electronic Army commandeered a news wire account and posted this bogus message, showing that Twitter has become such a trusted place for the latest information that it had become a target. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
