REUTERS/Carlo AllegriIt's jobs day in America. And the stakes are much  higher than usual. At 8:30 a.m. ET, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish the June employment situation report, aka the jobs report. The expectations: Nonfarm payrolls: +165k   (May +175k) Private payrolls: +175k (May +178k) Unemployment rate: 7.5% (May 7.6%) While most people are hoping for good news out of the jobs report, economists and market experts seem to be in consensus that they want a "goldilocks" outcome.  In other words, they want a good report, but not one that's so good that it would encourage the Fed to pull the plug on any of its stimulus programs. What The Fed Said You see, at its June Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, the Fed told us it expected the unemployment rate to gravitate toward the 7.2% to 7.3% range this year and the 6.5% to 6.8% range in 2014. And with that forecast in mind, here's what Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said that got economists and investors around the world all riled up: "If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this forecast, the Committee currently anticipates that it would be appropriate to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this year; and if the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our current expectations for the economy, we would continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of next year, ending purchases around midyear." Bernanke's talking about tapering, or gradually reducing, the Fed's monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, which has boosted credit market liquidity and kept long-term interest rates low around the world. "[M]arkets and the Fed are now even more highly dependent on sustained evidence that the real economy is indeed on a solid improving trends, including a consequential rise in actual and expected nominal GDP growth," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian. "With that, the focus will now shift firmly to the forthcoming June jobs report; and it will be even more intensive than usual." What The Economists Are Saying Here's what Wall Street's top economists are saying about Friday's report: FREE AppDownload
