Bruce KrastingNOTE: This post was originally published on Friday, September 6. Tom Perez got the job as Secretary of Labor just two days ago. All smiles with the Veep for the affair. After the payroll numbers this morning Perez goes on CNBC and talks about how great things are, and what a good job Obama is doing. But 6:15 into the clip the point is made that last month the average work week fell to the lowest level in six months. Perez is asked if Obamacare is forcing companies to cut worker’s hours to 29/week. Perez fired back with an unequivocal, pre-planned response: Bruce Krasting The response by Perez runs counter to what I have read; it also runs counter to my own inquires. In my small town there is a decent sized regional grocer. I’ve made a point of asking the ladies who ring things up how many hours they work. The answer is that in this store the policy is that all ‘front end’ personnel are restricted to 29 hours (the food preparers are not subject these rules).  One person told me, “they said it was because of the government insurance”. My anecdotal information does not stand up against Mr. Perez’s  claim of no correlation. However, the following articles/clips do stand up. The NBC bit is pretty much a slap in the face for Mr. Perez and his boasts. Either all of these news outlets are making stuff up, or Perez is blowing smoke. NBC – Obamacare Causing Workers Hours to be Cut to 29 Hours All Across the Country CNBC – Businesses claim Obamacare has forced them to cut employee hours WSJ – ObamaCare’s Definition of a Full-Time Job Needs Revising NY Daily News - Companies cut part-time worker hours to avoid Obamacare requirement Fox - ObamaCare pushing Americans into part-time work, critics say Forbes – Who Can Deny It? Obamacare Is Accelerating U.S. Towards A Part-Time Nation The Hill - Cruz: ObamaCare is ‘forcing’ employers to cut workers’ hours Zero Hedge – The “Obamacare Part-Time Jobs” Effect Goes Mainstream Obamacare is a huge deal. It will have significant consequences on the economy. It’s very important that those consequences are understood, and, if necessary, changes have to be made to minimize the negative consequences. I understand that Perez has to walk and talk the party line as payoff for the new corner office. That’s just the way of things in D.C. But Perez crossed the credibility line on his second day at the job. FREE AppDownload
