Bloomberg TelevisionHoward Marks is the founder and chairman of Oaktree Capital Management, a Los Angeles-based firm with approximately $80 billion of primarily fixed-income and distressed assets under management. The "illuminated" edition of his, book, The Most Important Thing, was recently released. It contains comments from notable investors, including Christopher Davis, Joel Greenblatt, Paul Johnson and Seth Klarman. I spoke with Mr. Marks on November 15 at the University of Virginia Investment Conference in Charlottesville, VA. In your book you make the following observations about cycles: “Rule number one, most things will prove to be cyclical. Rule number two, some of the greatest opportunities for gains and loss come when people forget rule number one.” At this time, are people forgetting rule number one in either the equity or the bond market? Tied into that, in your last memo in August, The Role of Confidence, you wrote that we were in the middle ground of the valuation cycle. What has changed since then? That is still true. Markets go up and down, and at the bottom they’re cheap, and then they rise to fair and then rich. We are in the middle range with regard to U.S. stocks. They have come a long way from the lower range a year and half ago. They are probably up 45% on the S&amp;P from there. I thought they were very cheap at that time, and now they are at fair to full value. Full does not mean over-priced. I think they’re somewhere in the upper part of the fair territory. All bonds are expensive since interest rates are being held artificially low by the Fed’s bond-buying program. One of these days, I hope, the government will stop holding interest rates down and rates will go up a moderate amount. If the 10-year today is 2.7%, my guess is it is going to go to 3.5% to 4%, but not to 6% right away. Bonds in general are rich. Credit spreads within the bond universe look okay. You are a proponent of second-level thinking. Can you give a short explanation of what that means for the benefit of our readers? It mainly means that you have to understand how securities are valued and how money is made. If you take a simplistic approach you can’t succeed. Second-level thinking says that you have to think different from and better than the crowd. If you think the same as the crowd you’ll have average results. How is money made? If corporate profits grow 6% a year, it’ll be easy to make 6% a year in stock market. But to make more, or to outperform others, you have to think different and better. Money is made when the crowd’s expectation of the future turns out to have been too low, when reality exceeds perception. Obviously, if you are going to make money to an above average extent, you have to see when the crowd’s thinking is off. By definition, if you think like the crowd you can’t know when the crowd is off. As I say in the book, the first-level thinker says, “This is a good company, you should buy the stock.” The second-level thinker says, “This is a good company, but not that good. You should sell it because it is up on expectations.” Let me give you examples, to see your second-level thoughts on some topics. We will start with high-frequency trading. There are a lot of things that I think can’t work, and yet somebody makes money with most of them. Maybe not enough people make money to refute the belief that these things are random, but somebody makes money. Can you hire a computer to tap into the flow of trading information and make a superior return? You should not be able to, because that should be capable of being arbitraged away, but I understand some people do. They probably make it by finding some tiny abnormality and leveraging it up. If we are talking about a tiny abnormality, then it should not have a profound effect on the market itself. So I don’t worry about it, but then again I am not in equities. Fracking and the so-called energy revolution? I don’t follow it. I don’t have any primary information. A lot of smart people think it is going to move us into the direction of energy sufficiency for a while, and importantly increase our efficiency in manufacturing, and give us an edge. I am not willing to bet the ranch on this producing a brand-new era, but it sounds like a positive. It would be a plus for the stocks that are affected – if it is not already in the price. The first-level thinker says, “When we reach energy sufficiency, stocks are going to go up.” The second-level thinker says, “Since we are going to be better off in the future than we are, I will buy some stocks today.”  That bids stocks up and that is how future events are discounted today. Quantitative easing? I may be in the minority on that, because I don’t think it is a big deal, in a sense. There was an article in the papers within the last week talking about fears of quantitative easing. My question is: What are you afraid of? People are concerned that tapering quantitative easing will have two effects.  Number one, they are concerned that the economy will slow if we stop simulating it, and number two, they are afraid that interest rates will go up. On the first, I believe a Yellen-led Fed will be a dovish Fed, which is interested in producing growth. I don’t think they are going to remove the patient from the breathing machine until they’re sure he can breathe for himself. If the fear is that growth will slow, the Fed is going to do everything it can to make sure that in the environment in which they remove QE, the economy will grow on its own. Number two, if people are afraid interest rates will go up, my answer would be, “Yes that is right; get used to it, because today’s interest rates are artificially low.” Herb Stein, the great economist said, “If something cannot continue it will stop.” Artificially low interest rates cannot continue forever. They will stop. Rates will probably rise. If you agree with that, and I think it is all true, then it means that you have to accept that it is going to happen.  What is the difference when it happens? People say it will happen in December or March. What is the difference between the two if it is going to happen? I am never very fixated on timing of events. When I was an equity analyst you would get reports and they would say things such as, “I like it for the long term not the short term, or I like it for the short term not the long term.” How do you know? If you think something’s going to go up, how do you know whether it is going to happen in the short term or the long term? Either you like it or you don’t, it seems to me. If you think interest rates are going to go up, what does it matter whether they go up in December or March? If you think they are going to go up in March, wouldn’t it be stupid to plan on holding bonds from now until February in the expectation that you are smart enough to avoid the effect in March? Number one, it may happen in February instead and surprise you. And number two, if it happens in March it may be anticipated in February, bringing markdowns while you’re holding. So I just don’t see the big deal. Read the rest at Advisor Perspectives » This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
