A banker was falsely labelled 'Crazy Miss Cokehead' during a vicious campaign of harassment after she blew the whistle on insider dealing, a tribunal heard yesterday. Svetlana Lokhova, the Russian-born daughter of a shipping broker, was also described as “chemically dependent minigarch daughter”. The Cambridge graduate says she was accused of taking cocaine, being mad and unstable by bank bosses as part of a “sustained and vicious campaign of harassment and discrimination.” Miss Lokhova, 32, believed she was victimised after she reported a senior trader at Sberbank for insider dealing. Bosses had told her the complaint was “unacceptable” and in February 2010 she quit her £120,000 a year London-based job as Head of Fixed Income Sales at subsidiary Troika Dialog UK. Months later, the trader was dismissed and one of the bosses was later arrested by the FBI and convicted of an unconnected fraud in the US while working for UBS. Two months after her departure, Miss Lokhova was tempted back to her employers by bosses in Moscow who offered her a guaranteed annual bonus of £666,000. But she claimed that by then her line manager, head of equity sales David Longmuir, and Sberbank UK CEO Paolo Zaniboni had by then taken a dislike to her over her whistle blowing, and conspired to get rid of her. Miss Lokhova, who was now working in Equity Sales, resigned from the bank for a second time last April. She is claiming sex discrimination, harassment, victimisation, and constructive dismissal, and that she was entitled to protection as a whistle blower. Bosses were said to have sent “defamatory” remarks about her using a messaging system to colleagues and clients of the bank. In a witness statement to the tribunal, Miss Lokhova said: “I was referred to as ‘crazy’, ‘mental’, ‘Mrs Caveman’, ‘Crazy Miss Cokehead’, ‘totally unstable, ‘bitch’ and ‘quite-likely-clinically bonkers… MAJOR carcrash comin’.” She cited one comment made by Mr Longmuir to a client from one of the largest asset management firms, saying: “We are all quaking here – awaiting arrival of Ms Cokehead in puff of sulphurous smoke.” In another remark, he was said to have written that she should “visit all regional offices… by train… from Moscow” and a colleague replied that she should walk instead “in hiking boots… and plenty of marching powder”. Miss Lokhova said: “To discover the extent of the sexist comments that were being made about me is shocking. “This was even more so given the hard work and effort that I had made at the bank, both in my first and second periods of employment. “I believe that it is no accident that a large number of derogatory or insulting references to me are accompanied by a gender specific word. “It also seemed that David was entirely confident in speaking about me in such a way, both to my colleagues and to clients, which suggests that he had already established in their minds a completely false and disparaging perception of me. “David was also effectively making me out to be an unacceptable salesperson to clients of the bank - let alone to any others whom those clients might have decided to pass on his comments.” Her barrister Andrew Srafford QC told the tribunal the references to her were “clearly a defamatory suggestion that Miss Lokhova was a cocaine user” which Mr Longmuir now accepted was untrue and defamatory. They showed a “willingness and intent to damage, by unlawful means, Miss Lokhova’s personal reputation and professional standing,” Mr Stafford added. Naomi Ellenbogen QC, for the bank, denied Miss Lokhova was victimised because she was a whistleblower. Instead Miss Lokhova’s “rude and dismissive attitude towards colleagues, her unprofessional behaviour and her tendency to lose her temper and self-control when things did not go her way” were to blame. The hearing at the Central London Employment Tribunal continues.  FREE AppDownload
