What may drive additional gains? The market will focus on several things: holiday shopping, seasonal patterns, and the December Federal Reserve meeting. Holiday Shopping As Black Friday approaches, market participants turn their attention to holiday shopping as a barometer of the health of the economy and as an indicator for potential leadership by the companies in the consumer discretionary sector. The National Retail Federation projects 2013 holiday sales to rise 3.9% this year, slightly ahead of last year’s 3.5% increase. We believe this expectation for a close-to-average year (holiday sales have increased 3.3%, on average, for the last 10 years) will likely be exceeded for a few reasons:<U+0083> Seasonal Patterns End-of-year seasonal patterns are frequently a focus of market participants due to the tendency of fund managers and individuals to tidy up portfolios for tax and other reasons around year end. However, there is not likely to be much tax loss selling this year, given the broad and powerful gains, but we can expect a lot of capital gain distributions from funds that could prompt some volatility. The “January effect” of outperformance by smaller company stocks has tended to start in mid-December in recent years after they have been dumped for tax loss selling and other reasons. But what may lead the market higher? Based on the above analysis, it could be the consumer discretionary sector. This sector typically has a pretty consistent pattern of outperformance in November and December. The industrials sector also tends to outperform historically, while financials and energy tend to lag. Fed Meeting The Fed meeting on December 17–18 may be the biggest event during the rest of 2013, and it will be closely watched by market participants. Although it is a long shot that the Fed will announce tapering its bond-buying program at that meeting, the statement, accompanying economic projections, and press conference will be scrutinized for insights regarding whether tapering will begin in January, March, or beyond.Bond yields may rise in response to improving economic data ahead of the meeting, continuing the slow-but-steady rise in yield from the 2.5% on the 10-year Treasury seen in late October. However, we are unlikely to see a sharp rise that would have a strong negative impact on the stock market. A Strong Close A strong close to a strong year may be in store for stocks. A pass on tapering by the Fed may boost stocks headed into year-end, meaning the S&amp;P 500 finishes the year with a “Santa Claus rally”—the tendency for the stock market to post gains between Christmas and New Year’s Day, a period that has averaged a 1.5% return since WWII.  This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
