Getty Images/Jason Kempin/StaffMichael Corbat, who became CEO of Citigroup three months ago when Vikram Pandit suddenly resigned, has announced his management team, the bank said in a release.  The new co-presidents are Jamie Forese and Manuel Medina-Mora.  Here's Corbat's memo to employees:  Dear Colleagues, As has been the case throughout our history, Citi today is fortunate to have incredibly strong leaders. I'll be relying on their skills and experience as we navigate the challenges and opportunities ahead. Our unparalleled global network gives us a competitive advantage. We need to leverage that advantage throughout our organization and strike the right balance of authority and accountability between our businesses, regions and functions. To that end, I am pleased to share the roles and responsibilities of my direct reports on our management team effective today, as well as a new structure for Operations &amp; Technology. First, Jamie Forese and Manuel Medina-Mora will become Co-Presidents of our firm. Jamie will now be responsible for each of our Institutional businesses and Manuel will continue to oversee Global Consumer Banking and our franchise in Mexico. Manuel and Jamie have both been part of Citi and its predecessor companies for their entire careers. They are outstanding representatives of our culture and commitment to excellence. To help them achieve their business objectives, we will be reorganizing Operations &amp; Technology. Having made great progress in O&amp;T by running it as a centralized function focused on strengthening controls and managing expenses, the divisions supporting the Institutional and Consumer businesses will now report to Jamie and Manuel, respectively, while working closely with Don Callahan. This change will better align the priorities and strengthen accountability between our client-facing businesses and their support function as we continue our efforts to become a fully digital bank and improve efficiency through the organization. As Head of O&amp;T, Don will continue to directly manage our Enterprise O&amp;T function and be responsible for all shared infrastructure and for ensuring our systems are regulatory-compliant. Jim Cowles will become CEO of Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Jim is a Citi veteran who has spent much of his career in EMEA. Having worked with Jim very closely last year, I have great confidence in his ability to lead our businesses in the region. Bill Mills, in addition to serving as CEO of North America, will now oversee Community Development as well as International Franchise Management, in which role he will have responsibility for corporate governance in our 101 countries. He is uniquely suited for this role, given a career that has taken him across so many of our geographies. Francisco Aristeguieta, CEO of Latin America, and Stephen Bird, CEO of Asia Pacific, will continue in their current roles as we execute a strategy that leverages our unique footprint in the emerging markets. John Gerspach will continue to be our Chief Financial Officer, and I have asked him to spearhead our Expense Management, Enterprise Payments and Citi Ventures initiatives as well. Brian Leach will be taking on responsibility for additional functions which safeguard Citi's license to do business. As Head of Franchise Risk and Strategy, he will now oversee Audit, Compliance and Strategy. Brad Hu, currently Head of Risk for Asia Pacific, will become Citi's Chief Risk Officer and report to Brian. Gene McQuade will continue to serve as CEO of Citibank, N.A., while overseeing Citi Holdings and Japan. Over the past several years, Gene has greatly improved the oversight and controls of our largest depository vehicle, and I am pleased he has agreed to continue this critical work into next year. Ed Skyler, Head of Public Affairs, will oversee the Citi Foundation in addition to his current responsibilities, which include Branding &amp; Sponsorships, Communications, and Government Affairs. Paul McKinnon, Head of Human Resources, and Rohan Weerasinghe, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, will both continue to serve in their respective positions. Sara Wechter will serve as my Chief of Staff. Sara brings both banking and corporate governance experience to this role, and I will rely on her ability to think strategically while paying attention to the details as she manages key projects on my behalf. Finally, Vice Chairman Lew Kaden has informed me that, after more than seven years with the firm, he plans to retire in the coming weeks. Lew, who was previously our Chief Administrative Officer, helped guide Citi through some difficult times, while strengthening our relationships with clients and governments. We will miss his wise counsel. The three months I have been CEO have been memorable to say the least, and I am very proud of what we have done to prepare for 2013. We developed a budget which contained difficult but necessary choices. Today, we will submit our capital plan to the Federal Reserve. We have finalized the management team and are re-organizing O&amp;T. I know that I can count on each of you to support the entire management team and each other as we move forward. We will be tested in the year ahead. The environment remains very challenging from a variety of perspectives, and I am going to rely on every person in this company to make sure we are as successful as we possibly can be. Thank you for all that you do for our company. - Mike SEE ALSO: Citigroup Cutting Over 11,000 Jobs &gt; FREE AppDownload
