REUTERS/Rebecca CookDetroit's bankruptcy is unprecedented, not least because it's the largest any U.S. city has ever filed. Now there's a new wrinkle: ratings agency Fitch is warning that if a judge accepts the current version of emergency manager Kevyn Orr's bankruptcy filing, it could be forced to reevaluate all U.S. muni bonds. Here's the deal: Orr is trying to treat the city's unlimited tax general obligation bonds [ULTGOs] as totally unsecured debt. That means it is eligible for haircuts: If you hold one of these bonds, you face losing many cents on the dollar off the original amount you're owed. To avoid giving everyone an overly enormous haircut, and as required by the notes, the city has levied a property tax. But Fitch says the sums levied to date are inadequate, and the city will end up defaulting on its next debt service payment due, Oct. 1, 2013. The thing is, ULTGOs are supposed to be treated as more slightly more secure than limited tax general obligations [LTGOS].   And Fitch is not pleased that Orr is trying to lump them together. What's more, some of the tax money raised has been diverted to fund city operations. That's not supposed to happen. And finally, the amount owed on ULTGOs isn't even that large — about $600 million — relative to what is owed to pensions and water and sewage bonds, which is in the billions. If the federal magistrate overseeing the case okays Orr's maneuver, the agency says, it could trigger a wave of downgrades:  There has been little precedent for the classification of ULTGOs as general unsecured debt. The [emergency manager]'s grouping together of ULTGO and LTGO bonds, as well as with employee benefit payments, as a single class of creditor is at odds with Fitch<U+201F>s prior expectations.  If it is confirmed in bankruptcy, it will lead the agency to rethink the distinctions made between tax-supported ratings within Michigan and perhaps nationally.  ... If the Detroit case is a shift in the impetus in Michigan toward lumping these obligations together and refusing to levy to support the apparently affordable ULTGO debt already approved by taxpayers, the outcome will lead us to reconsider the merits of such distinctions. Reuters Edward Krudy and Deepa Seetharaman reported in August that creditors had proposed restructuring the debt to extend its term date. But Orr was apparently not receptive: "Who wants a 70-year mortgage?," Orr said. "Saddling the city with decades of potential payments may not comport with our concepts of what's sustainable," Orr said, declining to comment on any specific discussions. What a mess. (Spotted by Brian Chappatta.) FREE AppDownload
