The Roots of Strength Microsoft Microsoft was for a time the primary corporate beneficiary of the PC revolution.  The insight of co-founder Bill Gates that maximum profit could be generated from sale of the software that ran computers, rather than from sale of the computers themselves, was a simple but profound idea that led to a gusher of profitability that continues to this day. Using its strength in operating systems, first with MS DOS and then with Windows, Microsoft successfully pushed its way into productivity software, leading to the Office suite of products, as well as more high-end enterprise tools such as the Exchange, SQL Server, Sharepoint and Great Plains products. Today the company boosts imposing financial health.  Revenue and cash flow came in at $73.7 billion and $31.6 billion for FY12.  Additionally, management has demonstrated a focus on returning cash to shareholders, with $10.7 billion returned in FY12 through stock buybacks and dividends. Google Google came of age at a fundamentally different time and in a different competitive landscape.  Whereas Microsoft’s management intuited where profitability would concentrate in the PC ecosystem and positioned themselves to reap maximum gains, Google entered a crowded market (search) that few thought was in need of improving and revolutionized it with a superior product. Google has demonstrated considerable earning power, with LTM revenue of $47.5 billion and operating cash flow of $15.9 billion.  Nonetheless, the company is considerably less diversified than Microsoft, with 77% of Q3 revenue coming from Google.com and Google’s network partners.  Different Paths Understanding the fundamental differences between Microsoft and Google comes down to the different paths each company took to dominance.  Microsoft is a company that determined where best to place the mousetrap, and improved its products over time after securing advantageous placement.  Google is a company that built a better mousetrap, and over time learned how to make placement irrelevant.  Microsoft utilized Moore’s Law to sell software with ever more bells and whistles, Google utilized Moore’s Law to sell advertising and give away software as a loss-leader.  Pressure on Multiple Fronts Both companies are pressing, and being pressed, on multiple fronts.  Conclusion The free cash flow problem has perhaps never been better illustrated than it is with these two companies.  Both sit on massive cash piles ($66.1 billion and $44.6 billion for Microsoft and Google, respectively), but the market niches they dominated to generate that cash hoard are undergoing rapid change.  Whether it is within the power of the management of either company to more aggressively return cash to shareholders remains an open question.  With the pressures these two have the ability to place on one another, the prospect for value destruction in the near-term appears considerable. About the Author – David Johnson David Johnson is a partner with ACM Partners, a boutique financial advisory firm providing due diligence, performance improvement, restructuring and turnaround services.  He can be reached at 312-505-7238 or at david@acm-partners.com. This article originally appeared at ACM Partners.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
