Stefan Gosatti/Getty ImagesOver the last year of developing my new clothing line, there have been a number of things that have happened, and people I’ve met that have influenced the direction my ideas have taken. One of the encounters was in the Portland Hilton in February where a very normal-looking guy asked me about the polka dot silk dress scarf I was wearing. He said he'd been thinking about getting a scarf like it and wanted to know where he could buy one. I said that I had bought it in New York, gave him my email, and told him I would find him one and send it. Within three minutes I received his email and it read, "Met you at the Hilton. Help me dress better!” The “normal looking” guy in Portland was anything but normal. Kevin Peach is an Emergency Management specialist who works with non-profits and lives in DC and also does a lot of volunteer work for wounded/disabled veterans, which I find inspiring. Just goes to show you don’t judge a man by his sweater. Kevin and I have kept in touch over the last 9 months. I did find him the same scarf and sent it him, and he was so appreciative. Ironically, the day before launching my line at the beginning of December, I got an email from him that read: “I just wanted to touch base with you and see how things are going. I LOVE my scarf and have since added two more to my collection.  Thanks for showing me the way and giving me the confidence to add scarves to my repertoire!”   All over the country I somehow find myself engaged in conversations with men that would never normally discuss things like patterns, color or cut, but it’s happening everywhere I go. From my daughter’s college fraternity friends to Wall Street guys in the NYC subways, there is a quiet revolution going on. When I started Joe Boxer 25 years ago, 80% of men’s underwear was bought by women. That number today is down to 20%. Men are becoming more independent in their thinking and more adventurous in expressing who they are as defined by what they wear. The uniform that we have trained men to wear is ready for a big shift. We're about to go from Prep, to what I call Post-Prep. If Prep is emailing, Post-Prep is tumbling. Prep is Prius, Post-Prep is Tesla. It’s the Darwinian evolution that we, as men, are going through. Which brings me back to scarves, and I don’t mean that plaid thing that you got for Christmas thirteen years ago from your grumpy aunt in Milwaukee. But a dress scarf, made of silk, cotton or wool, preferably patterned (polka-dot, foulard, paisley). Dress scarves are not just for cold weather but for indoors as well. What I say about dress scarves (and pocket squares) is that they are the gateway to better dressing; they wont break the bank; they’re easy to wear and don’t involve any tailoring. They’re also easy to coordinate, don’t take batteries and can take your wardrobe from dull to interesting in 2 seconds. When I asked a good friend of mine, a very attractive and successful business woman in NYC what she thinks of a man in a scarf, her answer came clear and fast. “It means that he has confidence, that he is together, and that he cares about his look. I’m immediately attracted to guys like that, and would want to know him.” Which is pretty much what any guy would want to hear. So this Christmas, give the gift of awesomeness. Buy yourself or someone you love (or someone you want to love), a dress scarf and see how much presence (or presents) you gain. You never know — when you wear a scarf, you might get luckier under the mistletoe. Nick Graham is the CEO of NGO Inc, a company that produces, and distributes Men’s apparel and accessories under the Nick Graham brand at nickgraham.com. He is also the Founder and former Chief Underpants Officer of Joe Boxer. nick@nickgraham.com This article originally appeared at NickGraham.com.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
