These professors are reshaping the curriculum, teaching extensively about exchange-traded funds, which, until recently, were rarely covered in the coursework of many major universities. Some of the names on this list have even translated their academic theories into investment results, helping create some of the most intriguing ETFs out there. For those wondering who exactly is behind the ETF evolution, we highlight several well-accomplished ETF-friendly professors (in no particular order): [If you're an ETF-friendly professor, drop us a line and let us know a bit about your work; we'd be happy to add you to the list.] In addition to being a professor, K. Geert Rouwenhorst is the deputy dean for the MBA curriculum at the Yale School of Management. His research spans a wide array of topics, including hedge fund strategies, commodity investments and the history of financial innovation. Professor Rouwenhorst is also the co-founder and director of research of SummerHaven Index Management LLC, a pioneer in the commodity indexes space [see Energy Bull ETFdb Portfolio]. Robert Shiller is a professor of economics at Yale University and one of the creators of the Case-Shiller Index of U.S. house prices. There are now a number of financial instruments based on this index, including The Barclays ETN + Shiller CAPE ETN (CAPE). Andrew Lo is a professor at MIT as well as the director of the MIT Laboratory for Financial Engineering. In 2009, Lo co-designed the quantitative model behind the Credit Suisse 130/30 Large-Cap Index, which is tracked by CSM [for Real Time Ratings on (CSM, A-) and more try ETFdb Pro]. Jeremy Siegel is a professor of finance at the Warton School of the University of Pennsylvania and a Senior Investment Strategy Advisor at Wisdom Tree Investments, Inc. Siegel worked closely with Wisdom Tree to develop several dividend-focused exchange-traded funds. Gary Gorton is a professor of finance at Yale School of Management and is currently a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. Professor Gorton also worked with SummerHaven Index Management LLC, a pioneer in the commodity indexes space [also check out the ETF Cheat Sheet: Precious Metals]. James DiLellio is a professor of decision sciences at the Graziadio School of Business Management at Pepperdine University. Professor DiLellio is an expert on portfolio management and has done extensive research on exchange-traded funds. Darrol Stanley is a professor of finance and accounting at Graziadio School of Business Management at Pepperdine University. Alongside his colleague James DiLellio, Professor Stanley has also provided key insight on the ETF industry, highlighting their performance relative to the broader equity markets [check out Differentiating Dividend ETFs]. A. Seddik Meziani is the Department Chair and a professor of finance at the School of Business of Montclair State University. Meziani has written numerous books and publications on exchange-traded funds, including the well-known books “Exchange-Traded Funds as an Investment Option” and “Exchange-Traded Funds-Conceptual and Practical Investment Approaches.” Pankaj Agrrawal is a professor of finance at University of Maine and is the Founder and President of Advanced Portfolio Solutions. Professor Agrrawal’s research primarily focuses on analyzing the performance of long-short ETFs. Zvi Bodie ia a professor of management at Boston University and is a consultant at Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. He is best know for his textbooks and publications on pension finance and investment strategy [for career and investing tips, check out Dividend.com]. K.J. Martijn Cremers is a professor of finance at the University of Notre Dame and is the Associate Editor of the Review of Financial Studies and at the Review of Finance. Professor Cremers introduced a new measure of active management  the “Active Share,” which has become widely used in the financial industry. Miffre Joell is a professor of finance at the EDHEC Business School in France. Her research focuses on the management and pricing of commodities and equities, and her work has been featured in a number of academic journals. Marco Avellaneda is a professor of mathematics at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences of New York University. In his research, Professor Avellaneda applies mathematics and econometrics to the financial market, including analysis on ETFs [also see Differentiating Dividend ETFs] . William F. Sharpe is a professor of finance at Stanford’s University’s Graduate School of Business, as well as a Nobel Prize winner in Economic Sciences. He was one of the originators of the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and developed the Sharpe Ratio. Professor Sharpe frequently blogs on his website, Lifetime Finance, about general investing and finance topics. Robert Korajczyk is a professor of finance at the Kellog School of Northwestern University and is the Director of the Zell Center for Risk Research. He has been quoted numerous times about exchange-traded funds, and teaches extensively on the topic in his classes. Hendrik Bessembinder is a professor of finance at the University of Utah and is the Editor of the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis. Professor Bessembinder has also served as a consultant for the Department of Justice, the SEC, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission [also see How To Swing Trade ETFs]. Allen Carrion is an assistant professor of finance at Lehigh University as well as a consultant for the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The methodologies behind his research are motivated by both academic theory and his experience as a trading floor analyst. Did we miss someone? Drop us a line and let us know if you’re an ETF-friendly professor; if your story checks out, we’d be happy to include you in our database. [For more ETF analysis, make sure to sign up for our free ETF newsletter or try a free seven-day trial to ETFdb Pro] Disclosure: No positions at time of writing. Click here to read the original article on ETFdb.com.   Read more posts on ETF Database » FREE AppDownload
