REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueThe whole world has been anxiously waiting for this moment. The Federal Reserve will wrap up its 2-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting today. At 2:00 PM ET, it will publish its FOMC statement as well as an update to its economic forecasts. Then at 2:30 PM ET, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will hold a press conference, which will include a Q&amp;A with economics reporters. Expectations Economists expect the Fed to announce no change in its benchmark interest rate target, which is currently at 0% to 0.25%.  Furthermore, they expect no change in its quantitative easing (QE) program, which consists of the Fed buying $85 billion worth of bonds each month to keep interest rates low. However, there is little agreement on when the Fed will begin to scale back its easy monetary policy. Recently, there has been tons of speculation that the Fed will soon taper, or gradually reduce, QE. This has been the source of volatility in the global financial markets as real interest rates have finally started to make a big up-move. "There is no direct way to quantify what the market is pricing in for the size of the Fed’s remaining asset purchases," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's David Woo. But he added that "QE tends to push real yields lower but inflation breakevens higher (Chart 7)." BAML, David Woo As such, everyone will listen very carefully for changes in language that may signal if and when tapering will begin.  In particular, the updated economic forecasts will scrutinized very carefully. Here's  the WSJ's Jon Hilsenrath: The evolution of these forecasts is a critical issue. Fed officials are unlikely at this meeting to change their $85-billion-per-month bond-buying program—launched to boost growth by pushing down long-term interest rates and pushing up asset prices, and spurring spending, hiring and investment. But what they say about the economy will send important signals about what they expect to do in the future. If they maintain confidence in their economic forecasts, it could signal they think they're on track to begin pulling back the program later this year. Here's what Wall Street's top economists expect from the Fed tomorrow (emphasis added): FREE AppDownload
