Alyson Shontell/Business Insider HSBC’s chief global economist has written a compelling but dark account of the challenges facing the West. Philip Aldrick considers the chilling claims. Bleak does not begin to describe the latest tome on the economic crisis by Stephen King, the HSBC chief global economist who appropriately shares a name with the best-selling horror writer. When the Money Runs Out is the economic equivalent of post-apocalyptic fiction, charting “the end of Western affluence”, and gives the author of The Shining a run for his money when it comes to filling readers with dread. Published this week, the chapter headings alone are enough to make you tremble; The Pain of Stagnation, From Economic Disappointment to Political Instability, Dystopia. If anyone in Britain was labouring under the misapprehension that 0.3pc GDP growth in the first quarter of the year and signs of a manufacturing revival were something to cheer – and that includes the other King, Bank of England Governor Sir Mervyn – HSBC’s King puts them right. The TelegraphThose aren’t green shoots, they are “bumps along bottom”. The country has just completed one “lost decade”, measured on growth per person, he says, and is about to enter a second. King is what his friends describe as a “happy pessimist”. It’s easy to see why. The piano-playing 49-year-old’s demeanour is as perky as his electric-shock hair. But his message is resolutely sackcloth and ashes. His prescription for the UK, like much of the West, is painful reform, and lots of it. Like all determined pessimists, though, King rejects the label. “I would call myself a realist who doesn’t peddle quick-fix solutions that won’t work,” he says. Those quick-fix fantasists, he claims, come from both sides of the austerity versus stimulus debate that dominates the current economic conversation. The mistake they make, he says with unapologetic gloom, is believing there is a route back to robust growth. “The problem with the merchants of stimulus and the merchants of austerity is that the majority have the same underlying belief that the economy is going to rebound rather quickly. “They just have very different views of how to get there. My concern is that both those sets of beliefs are a bit too optimistic about the nature and speed of the recovery.” Britain’s big problem, which it shares with the rest of the West, is that it will not be able to grow at a pace that will allow it to afford the commitments made to its people, King says. That simple observation is at the heart of his warning about the decline lying in store for the world’s advanced nations. “What if our financial wealth has been accumulated on the back of a delusion? What if political promises – even those made in good faith – can no longer be met? How should we cope with the subsequent disappointment?” he asks rhetorically. His answers are uncomfortable ones. Promises will have to be broken and expectations lowered. Weak growth will mean less prosperity to go round. People will be stripped of their “entitlements”. An introverted politics of envy will stir, resulting in pressure for greater equality and an attack on the rich. Society may fray as protectionism replaces globalisation and an ugly xenophobia rears up again. It will be a time for bold, honest politics, King says. Sadly, history is littered with tales of the reverse. King is not alone in his view that Britain will grow more slowly than in the past. Sir John Gieve, a former deputy governor of the Bank, has suggested a sustainable rate of growth in the UK may now be 1.25pc – half the pre-crisis level. Andrew Sentance, a former member of the Bank’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee, has called weak growth the “new normal”. In hailing “a modest and sustained recovery” last week, even Sir Mervyn warned that the economy would remain “weak by historic standards”. Britain, to use the Chancellor’s words in a speech to the CBI last Wednesday, is still grappling with the “worst economic inheritance any modern government has faced”. For King, the fervent belief that the UK will somehow return to 2pc to 2.3pc annual growth is “an inappropriate extrapolation of past trends”. He goes so far as to question whether official statistics for the past decade told the real story: “The underlying growth rate was soft” and was masked by a debt binge of unprecedented proportions. Britain may be growing again, just not fast enough to pay for the accumulated promises of the past. For King, the big question is: how does the country deal with the sense of decline as those entitlements are withdrawn? Difficult decisions are now unavoidable. George Osborne may believe he has already faced up to the hard truths – with his austerity programme and reforms such as raising the retirement age – but he has barely scratched the surface. “The need for some kind of reform is that much greater than has been admitted so far,” King argues. Even on official forecasts for UK growth, which he says are “optimistic”, there is “a permanent loss in activity relative to what people had assumed”. “The problem arises when you discover that, out of the total sum of income, there are commitments that have to be met. In which case there is less money to spend on other areas.” The ring-fenced budgets are a clear example. Health, pensions, education and overseas aid are protected, which means other departments face excessively deep cuts. So much so, in fact, that reports last week suggested angry ministers have found less than a quarter of the £11.5bn savings demanded of them. The same holds for the economy as a whole, King says. “What happens is that because people have already decided to spend their future income before it arrives, then you have a social and political problem.” In suitably apocalyptic terms, he draws comparisons with the run-up to the French Revolution, the Peasants’ Revolt of 1381, and the austerity of the 1920s. As entitlements are withdrawn – and King lumps “executive pay” and bankers’ bonuses alongside welfare dependency – the country will face social upheaval. “The US and UK have very high levels of income inequality and the problem in stagnant economies is that the only way you can make the majority better off is to seize funds from the minority, which is where you get into wealth taxes,” he says. “That takes you back to problems of the late 1960s and 1970s. You get into a fight over the limited resources, as resources aren’t growing enough.” From there, he warns, the economy can quickly spiral downwards as large redistribution “tends to dampen down entrepreneurial and creative risk taking”. There is no escaping the denouement, King says. But we can “extend and pretend”, as they say in high finance. The economic version has been quantitative easing (QE) and near-zero interest rates. To delay the inevitable, Western nations have become “stimulus junkies”, King warns. “These policies started off as being the equivalent of powerful antibiotics to make the patient better quickly. They’ve morphed into addictive painkillers. We’re on them and we don’t really want to face the cold turkey of coming off those painkillers. But as with many painkillers there are side-effects.” King is in no doubt that QE saved the West from a great depression. But the longer it has gone on, the more distorting its effect has become. Money printing now has more impact on “wealth redistribution than lifting the economy”, he argues. By contributing to higher inflation, it has “helped to squeeze real wages but has benefited those who are asset rich”. In other words, QE has acted like a “regressive tax” – punishing the poor and enriching the wealthy. It has also damaged business investment by punching a deeper hole in struggling pension schemes. “We’re in this bizarre situation where teachers are being fired to pay for the pensions of teachers who are no longer working,” he observes. Both of King’s points have been conceded by the Bank, though in less inflammatory terms. So, why persist with QE? “Stimulus policies have allowed politicians to live in a fantasy world,” he explains. “QE allows governments to live with a high level of debt.” King’s analysis of the West’s problems is uncompromising. But he does find room for some possible solutions. Unfortunately, “none of them is particularly attractive”, he admits. First, the UK needs growth. And greater equality could help. “This is not a party political point,” King says. “It’s an economic one. The financially asset-rich have a lower propensity to consume.” The argument has it that the rich tuck money away in Asian tracker funds that would otherwise have been spent down the shops – in the real economy – by the less well-off. It is a point advocated by those who have risen to the top. Sir Martin Sorrell, WPP chief executive, has warned: “The concentration of wealth is a serious issue.” An extension of the argument is King’s call for “some kind of social contract” to help younger generations. At present, policy is set to “protect things for the baby boomers” – a group he calls in his book “the selfish generation” that “had their cake and made sure they could eat it, too”. Protecting their entitlements strips the country of “investment for tomorrow”, he says. Commitments on infrastructure and education are vital, even if it means tearing down the ring-fence around health and certain pensioner benefits. It is in the boomers’ own interests, he claims. If all the economic restructuring is lumped on the young in higher taxes and worse public services, there will be a “mass exodus” that will make it even harder to keep the boomers in clover. An analysis by the respected Institute for Fiscal Studies shows that “pensioner households” have been least affected by austerity while working-age “households with children” are hardest hit. King, by the way, is a post-boomer himself, at 49. Boosting UK exports is also vital, he says. A recovery in the eurozone would do wonders, but in the fast-growing emerging markets Britain has a lot of work to do. To illustrate his point, King recounts an exchange with a Chinese colleague on one of his world tours. Asked for her impression of UK trade, she said: “What do you export?” King quipped: “It looks like we have an image problem.” In essence, his prescription is Osborne’s strategy – reformed and on steroids. One of King’s more radical proposals is to move the Bank to a nominal GDP target, as first floated last year by the incoming Governor, Mark Carney, a man hand-picked by the Chancellor. As any economist will testify, getting nominal growth going is vital if a heavily indebted country – like the UK – is to escape its debts, even if a large slug of that growth is simply inflation. Which explains why King would not unwind QE despite his objection to its “side-effects”. “One tried and tested mechanism [of reducing debt] is inflation, as it redistributes from creditors to debtors,” he says. QE keeps government borrowing costs below inflation, ensuring that it’s only the creditors who suffer. It’s what’s known as “financial repression”. The catch-22, though, is that inflation will depress household incomes, which will lower growth. Resolving that will be one of Carney’s many conundrums, King says. And he does not envy the Canadian’s task. The latest big hope for monetary policy is Carney’s idea of “guidance” – a promise to keep rates low until unemployment or some other measure has hit a pre-defined level. But, with rates already expected to be unchanged until late 2016, King says “it’s not likely to have much of an impact”. Carney’s bigger problem, he believes, is that “he’s managed to end up with this image of being like a monetary superman”. “And when he gets to Britain he may discover there are large amounts of kryptonite that will actually reduce his powers quite significantly.” Carney has already acknowledged he’s coming to where the “challenges are greatest”. And, in the early bloom of economic optimism, King’s clear-sighted and highly readable book is a timely reminder of just how challenging Britain’s problems still are.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
