Andrew Lo thinks financial engineering can cure cancer. The biggest problems confronting cancer research are the enormous cost of developing drugs, the long research and development cycles and the high likelihood that a drug will fail. The rewards for a successful drug, however, are enormous – not just medically, but financially as well. Lo has proposed a way that drug companies can use financial engineering to spread risks among investors and provide incentives to develop successful cancer treatments. He claims that a securitized-debt offering – a “cancer mega-fund” – would offer investors attractive risk-adjusted returns. Lo is a professor at the MIT Sloan School of Management and director of its Laboratory for Financial Engineering. He spoke at the CFA Institute’s fixed-income conference in Boston on October 17. “You can actually make money – good money – by curing cancer,” according to Lo. Each year, 230,000 women get breast cancer and 30,000 die of the disease. The annual cost of breast-cancer treatment is $100,000. But a drug that cost $50,000 a year and transformed breast cancer into a chronic manageable disease would be a very compelling business proposition, according to Lo. “There has got to be a way to make money for everybody if you can finance that kind of drug discovery,” he said. “We just need to find a better way to do it.” I’ll look first at a conundrum that Lo identified – why pharmaceuticals have had poor returns, despite a “golden decade” of advances in cancer treatment – and then discuss how a cancer mega-fund would work. The conundrum Over the last decade, Lo said there have been tremendous breakthroughs in our understanding of the molecular basis of cancer. He cited the development of drugs such as Gleevec in 2001, which offered a first-of-its-kind cure for leukemia because of the way it exploited the molecular basis of the disease, followed by another so-called designer drug, Avastin, in 2004. Sutent, which was released in 2006, was even more remarkable. It treats kidney cancer, and its developers went on to become the first to sequence a cancer gene, for leukemia. Last year, one of its developers, Dr. Lukas Wartman, had a recurrence of a particularly nasty kind of leukemia called acute lymphoblastic leukemia, which kills in weeks, not years. Wartman’s co-researchers sequenced his DNA and RNA and that of his leukemia gene. The RNA sequencing, which was not normally done, led them to discover a genetic mutation that indicated there was a drug that could suppress the leukemia gene. That drug was Sutent. Within a few months of beginning treatment, all trace of Wartman’s leukemia had disappeared. He was cured, though that’s a term oncologists don’t like to use given cancer’s unpredictability. A similar breakthrough occurred the day before Lo spoke, when scientists at the Washington University Genome Institute identified a very small number of genes responsible for tumor growth in 12 different kinds of cancer. Here’s the conundrum. Despite this progress in medical science, the investment performance of biotech and pharmaceutical companies over the last decade has been dismal, according to Lo. The NYSE Arca index of pharmaceutical companies has returned -1% over that period. Last year saw the smallest number of biotech startups, and there are now about half as many of those companies as there were a decade ago. The reason for this, according to Lo, is that the bio-pharma business model is broken. The risks in the industry are growing – precisely because the science behind it is getting smarter. Read the rest at Advisor Perspectives » This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
