CNBCJeff Gundlach just hosted another one of his extremely popular public webcasts. Titled, "What in the World is Going On?", his presentation aimed to address the recent craziness in the stock and bond markets. "Volatility has re-entered the global equity markets," he said. Gundlach, who has long been bullish on the Japanese stock market, addressed the recent 15% plunge in the Nikkei by saying that it's "not a good time" to be selling. But he also isn't convinced the Nikkei will hit a new high this year. On interest rates and discussion of the Fed possibly "tapering" its bond purchase program, Gundlach thinks that there could soon be some "right-sizing." Nevertheless, he thinks interest rates will stay low because surging rates would cause Federal interest expenses to blow out. "Gourmet burrito is an oxymoron," he said. Gundlach is listing YTD returns of the bond market sectors. "Something happened in the middle of May." Interest rates rose stealthily, and Japan fell spectacularly. "Volatility is re-entering the global equity markets." Global growth forecasts have been coming down. The only country with global GDP growth forecast upgraded is Japan. "The Japanese stock market looks like it's had it for the time being," said Gundlach on the Nikkei that went from 8,500 to 16,000. "This is not a good time to be exiting the Nikkei," talking about the Nikkei being 15% off of its high. I don't think you're going to new highs this year. You don't have a huge rally like you've had in the Nikkei and see it collapse all the way. Youth unemployment remains high.&nbsp; This will happen if interest rates squeeze the older, saving class. Gundlach says "right-size" instead of "taper."  Breakeven inflation rates are coming down. "I really dislike TIPS." "I don't own TIPS. I don't think anyone should use TIPS." CPI and PCE don't show any inflation. If they go higher, then the Fed would have to consider increasing QE. Especially since this causes Federal interest expenses to rise. There's a put on bonds by the Fed. Corporate profits are benefiting, but vulnerable to the need for higher tax revenue. We could see a mean reversion in corporate profits as a % of GDP. Profit margins are particularly high in healthcare and computers.&nbsp; They also have the lowest tax rates. Real personal income hasn't recovered to pre-recession peak. Average hourly earnings remain low. The employment to population ratio hasn't gone anywhere. "This is a problem." The economy isn't that great.&nbsp; Gundlach doesn't see us getting away from zero interest rate policy. And retirement age is going higher due to combination of life expectancy increasing and low interest rates. College graduate labor force participation rate. "If everybody had a college degree, what would it really be worth?" asks Gundlach rhetorically.&nbsp; Doesn't make sense to encourage everyone to go to college. Stocks do well during stimulus, bonds do well during periods of no stimulus. Not really a silver bull. CRB chart is really scary. Mortgage rates rising by ~150 basis points would impact affordability significantly. Not fond of subprime dedicated funds. Probably never will be. "Good luck." FREE AppDownload
