REUTERS/Brendan McDermidHerbalife just announced the completion of their financial re-audit by PriceWaterhouseCoopers. There were no material changes. Earlier this year, KPMG resigned as Herbalife's auditor after one of its auditors leaked non-public information to a third party.  The stock re-opened after being halted and the market seems pleased. Shares of Herbalife were last trading up more than 9% in the afternoon session.  Herbalife is a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional supplements and weight loss shakes. It's also the company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is short.  Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" and he's betting the stock will go to $0.  His rival Carl Icahn and a number of other fund managers including George Soros and Richard Perry disagree with that thesis and are long the stock.  Icahn is pleased with today's news.  "I'm certainly happy about it. I'd like to say I never really doubted this was a viable company," Icahn said in a phone interview with Scott Wapner on CNBC. He added that he believed the criticism against Herbalife "was nonsense then." Icahn continued to call this investment "sort of a no brainer." He continued to call the company "undervalued."    Ackman still believes the company is a "pyramid scheme." "It is not the role of Herbalife’s auditor to determine if the company is a pyramid scheme.  Rather, that determination depends on whether distributors earn more from recruiting new distributors than from retail sales to consumers who are not distributors.  The few Herbalife distributors that make money earn the vast majority of their profits from recruiting.  Herbalife is a pyramid scheme that will be shut down by regulators," Ackman said in a statement.  Herbalife's stock has skyrocketed since Ackman publicly declared his short position late last year.  Shares are up more than 60% then.  Here's the press release from today's audit announcement:  Global nutrition company, Herbalife (NYSE: HLF), today announced that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Herbalife's independent registered public accounting firm ("PwC"), has completed its re-audit of the Company's consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and the audit of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. Today, the Company filed an amended 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, following the completed re-audit of the Company's 2010, 2011 and 2012 financial statements. Additionally, the Company today filed amended 10-Q/As for each of these quarters of 2013 following the completion of SAS 100 reviews of those periods by PwC. With these amended filings, the Company is now up to date with its SEC periodic filings. There were no material changes to the Company's audited 2010, 2011 or 2012 financial statements included in the amended 10-K/A or to the Company's first, second or third quarter 2013 financial statements included in the amended 10-Q/As as compared with the Company's previously filed financial statements for and as of each of such periods1. As previously announced, the change in the Company's independent auditors to PwC, and the corresponding need to perform re-audits, was the result of the resignation of Herbalife's former independent auditor, KPMG LLP ("KPMG") due to the impairment of KPMG's independence resulting from its now former partner's unlawful activities. As previously publicly stated by KPMG, their resignation was not related to Herbalife's financial statements, its accounting practices, the integrity of Herbalife'smanagement, or any other reason. Here's a chart:  Yahoo! Finance  FREE AppDownload
