Yet while the gap between the first half of the tale — the resilience of bond markets — and the second — the state of the real economy — has at least stabilised in the case of Spain and, to a lesser extent, Italy, it's still widening in the case of France. The economic and financial news out of France this morning throws this growing disconnect into sharp relief: while manufacturing output in November continued to contract, and is now at a 5-month low, the yield on benchmark French 10-year paper has fallen some 40 basis points since early September. It appears that the worse things get on the economic and political fronts in France, the more resilient the country's bond market becomes. The spread between French 10-year debt and its German equivalent is now some 50 basis points compared with nearly 60 in early September. We have long argued that talk of a sharp sell-off in France's bond market is misplaced. If France was going to go the way of Spain and Italy, the chances are it would have already happened. Simply put, France has a deep, liquid and relatively safe enough debt market to act as a second-best (or least-worst) alternative to even richer German paper. However, we have also pointed out on numerous occasions that the near-collapse of Italy's bond market in November 2011 shows that foreign investors can flee large and liquid debt markets that have long been perceived as being relatively safe. Make no mistake about it, France has been knee-deep in a crisis for the past few years, and one which has been exacerbated by President Fran<U+04AB>ois Hollande's tax-driven fiscal consolidation programme and his extremely weak leadership. Indeed, the ever bleaker economic data in France is now the most conspicuous example of the severity and protracted nature of the downturn in the eurozone. France, along with Italy, is the "sick man" of Europe. But those anticipating a bond market rout in France are barking up the wrong tree. This article originally appeared at Spiro Sovereign Strategy.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
