Feng Li/Getty ImagesA month ago, China announced property curbs including a 20 percent capital gains tax on home sales, that slammed Chinese stocks, and property stocks in particular. Now, a bunch of local Chinese governments including Beijing and Shanghai have announced a follow-up to those measures. First, here's a look at the announcements, via Xinhua. Big cities will carry out the 20 percent capital gains tax on property sales. Beijing Shanghai Chongquing These property curbs are thought to be lacking in specifics, and inadequate in cooling home prices. Bank of America's Ting Lu writes that these follow-up measures are less strict than the markets had expected.  In terms of the policies for both cities, he writes that Beijing's restriction on home purchases is a bit of a surprise. Beijing however accounts for 4.5 percent of China's new home sales and therefore the "impact will be quite limited." Moreover, many of the smaller cities like Hefei and Dalian didn't even mention the 20 percent tax. From Lu: "The 'detailed measures' announced by local government this weekend reflect a tug-of-war between the local and central government (especially the previous one). Under China’s tax system, local governments get only 40% of capital gains tax on home sales but will bear the full brunt of falling land sales and other property-related tax, so they have little incentives in implementing overly restrictively property tightening measures including the 20% capital gain tax. We will perhaps have to wait for more details on 20% capital gain tax from the State Tax Bureau." He expects that new home sales won't see a huge impact from these measures and existing home sales already surged in March to avoid the tax, these should slow in April.  The governments preferred method of lowering home prices seems to be through increasing land supply as we have previously reported. Chinese property stocks seem to be celebrating the news, with the SHPROP rising as much as 2.43 percent today. FREE AppDownload
