Apple's numbers are out! It's a beat on the top and bottom line thanks to better than expected iPhone and iPad sales. The stock was up 6% after hours, going to ~$429. Then it crashed, and is now slightly down. Apple also announced plans for its cash. The company will return $100 billion to shareholders by the end of 2015. Apple authorized a $60 billion share buyback plan, and upped its quarterly dividend to $3.05 per share. To pay for the return, Apple plans to borrow cash. Apple's guidance for the June quarter is pretty weak compared to sell-side analyst estimates, but that was sort of expected. Overall, this was a pretty good quarter, judged by the numbers. However, on the earnings call, CEO Tim Cook revealed Apple has no new products planned until the fall. That means Apple is going to go a long time before producing new stuff. As a result the company's earnings growth will continue to shrink, and its revenue will go flat. Here's a full breakdown of how Apple did versus estimates: This post is being updated in real time, so for the most recent information click here, or just refresh your browser. We'll have a live blog of Apple's earnings call starting at 5 PM eastern.   In the first half of the year, $98 million in revenue, $22 billion net income, 85 million iPhones, 42 million iPads, very very large numbers. Acknowledge growth slowed, and margins fell.  Fiscal 2012 makes comparisons very hard. Last year, growth, foreign currency, product mix. Compares are made hard until the anniversary of the iPad Mini. Guiding to flat revenue + slight decline in GM. Decline in Apple stock price very frustrating to all of us. Apple remains strong. We can't control cost pressures, foreign currencies. Our objective is creating great products. Focused on the long term.   Based on research from comScore, iPhone #1 in U.S. for 3 month period ended in Feb. In Japan, #1 according to IDC. Also, first time non-Japanese company done that. Apple #1 in Nikkei brand survey. Second year in a row, unprecedented. Around the world, IDC ranked 1 or 2 in all countries IDC tracks. Kantar found 95% loyalty. Tops in customer experience. Businesses around the world scale iPhones. 30,000 compnies developing/distributing iPhone apps.  Did well in greater China and Japan. iPad and iPad Mini very popular. More iPad MInis in March quarter than December quarter. Not able to meet demand for iPad Mini in december, so channel inventory was low coming in. Most recent ChangeWave survey indicates 96% apprecition rate. iPad and IOS driving innovation across industries. Delighted by the number of companies choosing iPads.  iTunes best reach in industry. Quarterly billings over $4 billion, a $16 billion run rate. $2.4 billion iTunes revenue, new records. Helped us achieve $4 billion from iTunes, software and services. Thrilled with the growth of these streams. We sell movies in 109 countires, bookstores in 55 countries. App store in 155 countires, cover 90% of world population. 350,000 iPad apps. 45 billion cumulative downloads of apps $9 billion in app sales for developers, $4.5 billion in last four quarters alone MacAfee found malware on Android.  Fueled by iPhone and iPad 402 stores, 150 outside U.S. Average revenue was $13.1 million. Hosted 91 million, up from 85 million a year ago, 17.5K per store per week.   $102 billion off shore. $2.5 billion in divdends for the March quarter.  More details... 1. Share buy back to $60 billion, up from $10 billion a year ago. Biggest by any company. We believe in Apple so strongly, we think this is a great investment. Will buy beginning this month. Will use cash to balance RSUs. 2. Increasing dividend to $3.05, a 15% increase. Our board of directors say May 16, 2013 for shareholders of record. Happy to be largest dividend payer of record. Continuing to generate cash off shore, to repatriate would cause tax problems. Expect to fund from U.S. cash, future U.S. cash, and borrowing. Will maintain cash liquidity. Between now and end of 2015, foreign cash and domestic borrowing to grow. Capital return to have attractive returns to shareholders.  GM to be 36% and 37% OIE $300 million Tax rate to be 26%  Mix, more iPads than we planned, including iPad Mini in 4-6 week channel range. Change in services policy, unfavorable adjustments. Looking forward, to be down 50-100 basis points sequentially. Two factors: Lots of leverage on lower revenue, diff product mix. These headwinds offset by better cost in the quarter.  iPad grew 138% y/y, new records for sell through for iPad and iPhone. Some y/y timing w/r/t channel inventory. If you look at revenue on sell through, up 18%, it's a bit better than it looks. As I said, in year ago quarter, launched iPhone 4S. This year iPhone 5 in Decvember, diff set of dynamics. Going forward, still see opp in China, great market, expect to have 22 stores in next two years. Plan to add more points to sell iPhones. Innovating in online store, adding diff functionality. China has an unusually large number of first time smartphone buyers and that's not lost on us. Have made iPhone 4 more afforadble to make it more attractive to first time buyers.  Tim: As you get further from launch, a lower mix than where it starts, expect on all products. We do want to grow faster, but we don't view as only measure of our health. Customer Sat importance to us.Usage importance ... Market share important, unit volume important, but other things important. We see enormous first time buyers coming to market, particularly in other parts of the country. We made the iPhone 4 even more affordable, making it attractive to first-time buyers. We're continuing to do that in other markets. The phone for the price point is an incredible value, get into the ecosystem with a really great product. iPod &mdash; was below Apple margins. 4 years later, half our profits. iPad mini another example. Believe in strategic decision. Only make great products, this precludes us from making with a cheap experience. Some of revenue and profits happen after we ship products. $4 billion in software and services. Confident in our strategy.  Rivals made trade offs for a larger display. Apple would not make these trade offs.  Tim: Because not fragmented, we can update iOS and substantial will update to the latest software. Also, because usage for iOS is so much higher, when we integrate things well, people use them a lot more. Just those concepts are huge from customer experience view.  FREE AppDownload
