Flickr/corrine KlugToday, we get the first official look at Q2 U.S. GDP figures. Market economists predict on average that the U.S. economy grew 1.0% at an annualized pace in the second quarter after posting 1.8% growth in Q1. Personal consumption is expected to have risen 1.6% after a 2.6% advance in Q1. The main culprits for the slowdown in growth: sequestration of the federal budget earlier this year and an attendant knock to consumer spending. "The weakness in the first half of the year owes in part to fiscal tightening which resulted in a sharp drop in government expenditures and likely weighed on consumer and business expenditure," writes the U.S. economics team at BofA Merrill Lynch in a recent report. "Consumers responded with a lag — we expect real consumption growth of 1.8% in 2Q compared to the 2.6% gain in 1Q. We also forecast slow growth in capex and a slight contraction in nonresidential structures investment." Société Générale economists Brian Jones and Aneta Markowska are also on the bearish side of the consensus estimate for Q2 GDP. "We expect the Bureau of Economic Analysis to report that that inflation-adjusted business activity expanded by a paltry 0.4% annualized in Q2, well off the winter quarter’s less-than-inspiring 1.8% pace," say the SocGen economists. "Indeed, a marked slowdown in inflation-adjusted consumer spending from 2.6% to 1.4%, along with sizable drags from slower stock-building and the external sector, points to a sharp slowdown in inflation-adjusted business activity in the spring." However, many are quick to point out that the GDP release is a lagging indicator. "Our economists had long predicted weakness over Q2, and expect data to strengthen this summer," says Société Générale head of rates and forex strategy Vincent Chaigneau. Perhaps of greater note are the revisions to previous quarters that will accompany the Q2 GDP report. "It would be a big mistake to ignore the comprehensive benchmark revision to GDP on July 31," say BAML economists Michelle Meyer and Alexander Lin. "We think the revisions will be significant, resulting in a higher level of GDP, personal income and the savings rate." Meyer and Lin preview what to look for in the revisions included in tomorrow's report: "This has the potential to alter policymakers’ perceptions of both the depth of the last economic downturn and the speed of the recovery," says Deutsche Bank strategist Jim Reid. "The last comprehensive benchmark revision occurred in July 2009, just as the economy was emerging from recession. Given that we have seen a steady pattern of upward revisions to nonfarm payrolls, we believe there is a decent probability that real GDP growth will be revised higher over the past couple of years." FREE AppDownload
