It's hard to come up with a catchy, one or maybe two line summary for a movie. Or one suggestive enough to draw audiences in.  We found 13 that pretty much nailed it. 1994 seems to have been a particularly great year for taglines. The movie captured the mood of a generation. The movie shows, the tagline, tells. Columbia Pictures Corporation/IMDB This movie made everyone think of sharks differently. It also made them think twice about going swimming in the sea, which is precisely why this tagline earned a spot on our list. We also loved the tagline for Jaws II, 'Just when you thought it was safe to get back in the water." Universal Pictures, Zanuck/Brown Productions via IMDB The movie is essentially about a man who constantly faces rejection and wants to do something about it. It's hard to forget Robert DeNiro as Travis Bickle looking at himself in the mirror asking, "you talkin to me?" This tagline encapsulates all of it. Columbia Pictures Corporation, Bill/Phillips The movie is still terrifying and the creepy tagline nails it. This might just be the best movie tagline ever. 20th Century Fox Productions You can' forget Dustin Hoffman as a bespectacled, middle-aged actress in heels. The tagline won't let you.  Columbia Pictures/IMDB By today's show biz standards, paying people to sound smart on a quiz show wouldn't be a blip on the radar. At the time it was a scandal. The tagline draws you in to the 133 minutes of brilliance that is Quiz Show.   Hollywood Picture via Past Posters Let's be honest, all the taglines, for all the Naked Gun movies, are just as silly as the movies themselves. And that's why we love them. Here's a range from all three. 1. "If you see only one movie this year...you ought to get out more often." 2. "The Villain. Even Mother Teresa wanted him dead." 3. "A Mad Bomber Is On The Loose, And If Anyone Can Stop Him....So Can Frank! " Paramount Pictures/IMDB The tagline, a quote from the movie, sets you up perfectly for the quirky, vibrant, pastiche gem from Wong Kar-wai. I'll be honest, it helps that this is one of my all-time favorite movies. Jet Tone Production via eyeswideope It's spot on. And hilarious.  New Line Cinema via IMDB Not your typical movie about American soldiers. Instead, Joaquin Phoenix's Ray Elwood, bored out of his mind, becomes a black market schemer. This one is plain clever.   FilmFour via impawards.com The tagline is so bad, it's good. The movie is just bad. 20th Century Fox/IMDB The Joker stole the show in this movie, and not just because it was one of Heath Ledger's last roles. His maniacal laugh and the words "why so serious?" are seared in your mind long after the movie's done. Warner Brothers/Impawards One of the best taglines in the past few years that is perfect for this slick, mind-bending thriller. This could have been the tagline of Minority Report. Warner Brothers/Imdb Post your favorites in the comments section below! FREE AppDownload
