Banksy has some interesting thoughts about the new One World Trade Center. Namely, that it's ugly and shows the terrorists won.  "Today’s piece was going to be an op-ed column in the New York Times," the street artist claimed on his website Sunday. "But they declined to publish what I supplied." The Times so far have not confirmed whether Banksy actually submitted the piece, let alone whether the Times rejected it. The only comment from Times staff was this, from Opinion news assistant Leah Finnegan:   lol http://t.co/zE7dejwkZi — Leah Finnegan (@leahfinnegan) October 27, 2013 Banksy's op-ed is a little short for the Opinion desk's usual Sunday offerings, for whatever that's worth, but boy does it pack a punch. He manages to insult the One World Trade Center, Canada, and the city itself in just a few paragraphs. "That building is a disaster," he writes. "Well no, disasters are interesting. One World Trade centre  is a non-event. It’s vanilla. It looks like something they would build in Canada." Our northern neighbors aren't exactly known for their advancements in architecture. They built an ugly concrete spire in Toronto and called it a day. Later Banksy says, clearly joking, that the building's blandness is a sign the terrorists won after September 11th.  Here's the whole thing:  www.theatlanticwire.com Obviously the piece's stronger statements are jokes, but his point remains: One World Trade isn't exactly a world wonder. We reached out to the Times to see if the paper rejected Banksy's op-ed but have yet to hear back. Banksy also has new artwork up today in New York today, too. Animal New York reports it can be found at the corner of Noble and West Streets in Greenpoint. If the Times did reject his artwork, it would be another low moment for the artist's New York vacation. He's already had trouble with the mayor and the police force. And some intrepidphotographers are determined to poorly snap "identifying" photos of the anonymous Brit. But the local news paper? Aren't New Yorkers supposed to be nice, welcoming people? Want to add to this story? Let us know in comments or send an email to the author atconnorbsimpson@gmail.com. You can share ideas for stories on the Open Wire. More from The Atlantic Wire: NYPD stuggles to hunt Banksy 'The Counserlor' could use some help Remembering Lou Reed FREE AppDownload
