REUTERS/Chris Ratcliffe/poolSample polymer five and ten GB pound banknotes are displayed at the Bank of England in London September 10, 2013. The Bank of England is moving closer to ditching paper pounds and switching to plastic banknotes instead. The central bank said on Tuesday it would ask the public its opinion before taking a decision in December on whether to adopt polymer pounds which also would be smaller than current notes.The Bank of England is taking its new plastic £5 and £10 notes on a nation-wide roadshow – what will the public make of them? "Oh yes, I like them. They are so much more hygienic,” says Elizabeth Dillon, stroking something that looks very much like a £10 note. “It feels lovely and clean.” The 77-year-old is one of the very first members of the public to get her hands on the Bank of England’s prototype banknotes, which look nearly identical to the existing ones but are made of plastic. The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street has gone on a roadshow. Yesterday marked the first day of her two-month national tour, when Bank officials set up a little stall in the Westgate shopping centre in Oxford. Outside Primark and (very appropriately) Poundland, officials were canvassing people’s opinion of these notes, which – if the public gives them the thumbs up – will be introduced in 2016. Is the hygiene of banknotes a genuine worry, I ask Mrs Dillon. “Yes!” she insists. “You don’t know where they have been.” She is one of many members of the public, especially pensioners, immediately won over by the “cleanliness” of the notes. Ann Walsh, in her sixties, is lovingly fingering one of the fresh, plastic notes. “I tell you why I am a fan,” she says, fishing out her husband’s wallet and pulling out an old tenner. “This is tired, dirty and unpleasant.” Her husband is in firm agreement. “For 15 years I was treasurer of our village church; a lot of tatty notes have passed through my hands. These ones feel nice and smooth.” Many passers-by were surprised that the notes – launched with much fanfare this week – were not stiff. They have been called plastic, but this suggests something rigid. The material is technically polymer, a thin, transparent and flexible film made of polypropylene on to which layers of ink are printed. The prototype notes have a distinctive, shine to them – a matt gloss similar to that which is used on many hardback book dustjackets. Some shoppers described them as “silky”, others as “not real”. To my fingers, they do not feel cheap. But many are taken aback by the sensation of touching them. “Ooh, that’s really weird,” says Shannon Page, a young mother. “They feel like they’d just slip out of your pocket.” There is a crispness to them, but they lack that distinctive tactility that allows you to run your fingers across the weft and warp of, say, a £20 note. With the new ones, your fingers simply glide across. Brenda Kulesza, a retiree, is one of the very few people I meet who is strongly opposed to the plastic notes. “I just prefer the touch and feel of paper. I paint and draw and sew – I like natural materials. This new one has a synthetic feel. I don’t like it.” The plastic notes – contrary to some alarmist reports – do fold into a wallet. But they do not fold completely flat. They “bounce” back into shape, which Mr Walsh says would help church wardens trying fish out donations folded into those tiny gift-aid envelopes. The Bank – whose new governor, Mark Carney, introduced polymer notes to Canada last year – promises it will listen to all views before it makes a decision. But Victoria Cleland, the director of notes at the Bank, makes it clear that she would prefer to join the ranks of Australia, Mexico, New Zealand and Singapore, all of which have plastic notes. There are a number of reasons why the Bank thinks change is necessary. For starters, it is more difficult to forge. With polymer you can incorporate many more security features, including a clear window into the note, instead of a watermark. Cleland says: “Windows are difficult to counterfeit. The forger has to essentially cut a hole in the paper. Also – unlike a watermark – they are big and clear. People don’t need to hold up notes to the light to see it.” The other benefit is that they are more durable and need to be replaced less frequently. Last year the bank produced 1.3 billion new notes and there are currently 2.99 billion notes in circulation. A fiver barely lasts a year before it needs to be shredded into tiny particles in a secret warehouse in Essex and turned into compost. The new notes are not biodegradable, although in Australia they are turned into plastic plant pots or furniture after they have come to the end of their life. Though the plastic notes are more expensive to produce, on average they will last at least 2.5 times longer than paper ones, so the Bank estimates it will save £100 million over 10 years. Intriguingly, one of the main benefits touted when they were unveiled this week was that they could survive being put through the washing machine. The Bank actually published detailed figures as to how many times members of the public ask for notes to be replaced because of damage. Last year, 1,189 requests were received because of damage by fire, 5,740 because they were “chewed/eaten” and 2,082 because they had been washed – not enough, one would think, to change the 320-year-old tradition of printing on the material still used, which is a combination of recycled linen, rags and paper. Of course, if members of the public deeply care about the tattiness of their fivers they could visit the City, go to the counter in the imposing Sir John Soane-designed bank hall and ask for their dirty or out-of-date notes to be swapped for fresh ones. “Absolutely,” says Cleland. “But don’t encourage people to do it. Please.” She is worried about long queues stretching down the road. After the first few hours in the shopping centre it is clear that the public is definitely in favour of the plastic notes, convinced by the cost-savings, durability and cleanliness of polymer. But then I ask one fan, Tracey Samways, 48, what she thinks about the Bank of England’s other plan, to shrink the new notes by 15 per cent. “That’s terrible. What a bad idea. I really like the current size.” One of the officials explains that Britain has some of the biggest bank notes in the world, even after they were shrunk in 1990. “Well, yes,” says Mrs Samways, a full-time carer. “I don’t want to have notes the same size as everyone else.” Indeed one of the many glories of sterling is the generosity of scale of its banknotes. Yes, we no longer have to unfold a white five pound note the size of a handkerchief from our pocket, but there is a heft to even a tenner – especially when compared with the flimsiness of a euro or the meanness of a dollar. Cleland tries to justify the decision: “A lot of people are beginning to think they are a bit big. We have heard from focus groups and people say 'my husband brought me back a beautiful wallet from New York, and my notes don’t fit into it’.” It is true that many of the Oxford shoppers say they do not like how their notes sometimes stick out of their purses. But the fact that leather goods manufacturers of the world are making smaller products seems a risible reason to shrink the size of our currency. “We are trying to make the notes easier to handle,” says Cleland. The public are not being asked to give their views on this aspect. The decision has already been made. Ros Altmann, a pensions expert and former government adviser, is often a harsh critic of the Bank, but says: “We will have to trust that they know what they are doing. But one thing is of comfort – at least they are continuing to print banknotes.” Many high street banks and retailers would love it if we abandoned notes and coins, and used debit cards or, better still, contactless swipe cards. It would save them a fortune in cash-handling charges. But reassuringly, cash is more popular than ever and makes up 4.12 per cent of GDP, up from the 3 per cent a decade ago. With super low interest rates, many people no longer bother to keep cash in the bank. And others, hit by the recession, find it easier to budget using cash, rather than cards. “We are still seeing a demand for cash. And that is pretty common across the industrialised world,” says Cleland. The folding stuff is here to stay. Even if it won’t fold quite so easily in the future. This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
