Yes, ETFs are derivatives, but the people hustling these things will never tell you that nor acknowledge that they’re selling derivatives.  On the spectrum of derivatives, ETFs are relatively benign, but history tells us that all derivatives are relatively benign until something unforeseen goes terribly wrong. Most ETFs seek to mimic the investment performance of an equity index, no different than a traditional index mutual fund.  In a traditional index mutual fund, the fund manger buys or sells the proportionate amount of securities represented in the underlying index.  The price of the shares is determined by the actual value of the underlying securities the fund owns; it’s pretty straight forward. But with ETFs things are far more complicated.  ETF share prices are derived by a complex, behind the scenes process.  ETF pricing is totally dependent on multiple third parties, known as Authorized Participants, or APs (generally large financial institutions).   APs engage in a continuous process of trading “creation units” directly with the ETF fund manager.  Using technology driven trading techniques, like high frequency trading, the APs effectively trade against the ETF all day, pocketing the discrepancies between the ETF’s market price and the ETF’s net asset value. Proponents of ETFs are quick to highlight how these securities have “democratized” financial markets by making it easier for individuals to invest, particularly in things like commodities.  When we hear these claims we can’t help but recognize that democratizing a market is generally a key ingredient in the formation of an asset bubble.  Recall how easy it was for anyone with a pulse to get a mortgage to buy homes that they couldn’t afford – how did that end?  And just as ETFs make it easy to invest, they also make it easy to liquidate investments, just ask anyone who has owned gold ETFs over the past several months. As for commodity ETFs, investors need to forget the idea that they’re investing in real assets via an ETF.  Yes, the value of their commodity ETF is derived from the price of the tracked commodity.  In theory (at least in the short term) the ETF price should track the commodity price.  But make no mistake, ETFs are financial assets, they are not real assets.  These derivative securities allow you to track the performance, but you’ll never get your hands on the underlying commodity being tracked.  The real damage ETFs have inflicted on investors lies in investment performance. By embracing ETFs, active managers have wholeheartedly embraced indexing.  We don’t have anything against indexing, in fact in most cases it’s the right way to go.  But remember that the only reason an investor pays an active manager is to get investment returns above and beyond the index.  When active management strategies heavily rely on the use of ETFs, investors get stuck with indexed returns, with very little chance for relative out performance. For years, active managers have vehemently denied that they shadow their respective index benchmarks.  They fought the case for indexing tooth and nail.  But ETFs have turned out to be the active managers’ solution to indexing; it’s a classic case of if you can’t beat them join them.  Gone are the days when many firms would highlight the ability of their research departments, and how, through diligent research, they could deliver exceptional investment returns. Active equity management has evolved into a mindless exercise of picking sectors via ETFs, i.e., indexing.  Investors, seeking positive relative investment returns, continue to pay for active management, but what they need to understand is that they are just indexing with a handicap.  Of course active managers love indexing because they don’t need to pay a team of high priced analysts just to pick ETFs. Indexing makes great sense, but what will happen to investment returns when everyone throws in the towel and just indexes?  In our view, when everyone crowds into the same trade, returns get muted (and we get the feeling that we’re quickly heading in that direction).  That will be the time to abandon indexing (including ETFs) and put together good old-fashioned equity portfolios, one issue at a time.  Does anybody remember how to do that? This article originally appeared at El CAP.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
