ReutersIs there a shortage of talented workers in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) in America? It's one of the most fundamental questions of the immigration reform debate. The tech industry has made their feelings widely known. Interest groups for the technology industry — as well as some companies individually — say we need way more STEM majors in America to meet their needs. They argue that in order to meet these needs, since there aren't enough American STEM majors, they have to look elsewhere and recruit foreign-born talent to fulfill their demand for STEM-trained workers.  But the thing is, there isn't really a STEM shortage. There are plenty of graduates of technical fields in the U.S.  There is a different kind of shortage, but the American people won't like to admit it.   What there is, is a shortage of ultra-elite American-born talent, and Silicon Valley wants to hire the very best in the world. The view from Silicon Valley is that a lot of the U.S. talent, while bountiful in number, just doesn't stack up. But Silicon Valley doesn't want to just come out and say this, since it will sound offensive to a lot of American-born grads. So Silicon Valley argues that there's a general STEM shortage. The STEM Shortage Is A Myth The Economic Policy Institute published an informative paper several weeks ago that broke down a lot of the myths around the STEM shortage.  First, let's look at basic economics. When there's a shortage — when demand exceeds supply — the price of a good increases. If there were truly a supply shortage, then, why hasn't the compensation for tech workers increased dramatically? EPI Even more, were there truly a STEM shortage — were demand for STEM majors to exceed supply — one would expect that unemployment statistics for recent STEM graduates would be outstandingly low.  The reality? Nope. From a new report from the esteemed Georgetown Center on Education and the Workforce on recent graduate unemployment: Unemployment seems mostly concentrated in information systems (14.7 %) compared with computer science (8.7%) and mathematics (5.9%). As noted in an earlier report, hiring tends to be slower for users of information compared to those who write programs and create soft FREE AppDownload
