One good way to judge a currency is by looking at how it trades on the foreign exchange markets. A less boring way is to just see how it looks in your hand, all crisp and money-like. From epic 19th century leaders to blinding color schemes, some of the globe's currencies use style to make up for a dearth in purchasing power. Sure, the U.S. dollar is great. But the boring colors and lack of diversity (Every face is of a white male) makes it the most boring currency in the world. So, here you have it: the world's coolest banknotes. 1. Icelandic krona With a cartoonishly Nordic look, the krona is fun for the whole family. Flickr/Puyol5 2. Angolan kwanza Simple, elegant. Wikimedia Commons 3. East Caribbean dollar  A young, smirking Queen Elizabeth gives this banknote an island chicness. Wikimedia Commons 4. Israeli shekel The colorful "new" shekel redesign borders on glow in the dark (unconfirmed). Wikimedia Commons 5. Latvian lats A direct, bearded figure on a soft red and white background. This currency says, "I'm not the Euro, buddy."  Wikimedia Commons 6. Brunei dollar A stunning currency. Blue and yellow pastels contrast with stoic, mustachioed generals of Brunei yore. Flickr/LeftoverCurrency 7. Liberian dollar Liberia's history is directly tied to the U.S., and you can actually see it in the banknote, albeit with a uniquely African color scheme and gusto. Flickr/jmoneyyyyyyy 8. Comorian franc The currency from Comoros looks like something out of an old painting. Flickr/bharathi2010 9. Turkmenistan manat The manat's purples, maroons, and greens give it a 1980s electropunk feel, but with a certain austere importance to it. Well done. Flickr/evilsoapbox 10. Canadian dollar For obvious reasons. Flickr/leadenhall 11. Samoan tala Samoa's currency doubles as a travel brochure. Check out that luxurious coastline! Flickr/loei88 12. Czech crown An absolute classic, this currency screams, "Never again, USSR. Never again." Wikimedia Commons 13. Mongolian tugrik This ancient Mongolian leader is not to be messed with. Wikimedia Commons 14. Iranian rial UN sanctions have sent the value plummeting, but the rial itself is a real classic. Staunch leader, big mountain. A simple and effective formula. Flickr/ozz13x 15. Bhutanese ngultrum Stunning (plus honorable mention for best name). Wikimedia Commons 16. Costa Rican colones Sharks. Wikimedia Commons FREE AppDownload
