REUTERS/Gary Hershorn The Empire State manufacturing survey for September is out and the headline number fell to 6.29 in September, from 8.24 the previous month.  This would suggest that manufacturing conditions in New York deteriorated from August. But the number continues to show growth. "The September 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey suggests that conditions for New York manufacturers improved modestly for the fourth straight month. The general business conditions index edged down two points but, at 6.3, remained in positive territory. The new orders index inched up two points to 2.4, while the shipments index jumped nearly fifteen points to 16.4—its highest level in considerably more than a year. The prices paid index was little changed at 21.5, while the prices received index climbed another five points to 8.6. Labor market conditions were mostly steady; the index for number of employees retreated three points to 7.5 and the average workweek index edged down to a neutral reading of 1.1. Indexes for the six-month outlook revealed increasingly widespread optimism about future business activity. The future general business conditions index rose for the third straight month, climbing three points to 40.6, its highest level since the spring of 2012. "In response to a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers reported that their selling prices had risen by a little less than 1 percent, on average, over the past year, and they predicted an increase of 1.5 percent, on average, over the next twelve months. These increases roughly matched those reported in last September’s parallel survey. When asked a separate question about the probability of specified price changes over the next twelve months, the average respondent cited a 44 percent chance that selling prices would remain within 2 percent of current levels and a 43 percent chance that they would rise by 2 percent or more, but just a 3 percent chance that they would rise by at least 8 percent. For more details, see the full supplemental report." Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
