IntelIntel CEO Paul OtelliniIntel's first quarter earnings report is out. The company reported earnings of $0.40 per share, right in line with estimates. Revenues came in at $12.58 billion, just below the $12.59 billion predicted by analysts. Intel said it sees second quarter revenues in the range of $12.4-13.4 billion. Analysts were expecting $12.85 billion. The stock is trading up 3.3% in the after-hours session. Below is the full text from the release: SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Intel Corporation today reported first-quarter revenue of $12.6 billion, operating income of $2.5 billion, net income of $2.0 billion and EPS of $0.40. The company generated approximately $4.3 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $1.1 billion, and used $533 million to repurchase 25 million shares of stock. “Amidst market softness, Intel performed well in the first quarter and I’m excited about what lies ahead for the company,” said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. “We shipped our next generation PC microprocessors, introduced a new family of products for micro-servers and will ship our new tablet and smartphone microprocessors this quarter. We are working with our customers to introduce innovative new products across multiple operating systems. The transition to 14nm technology this year will significantly increase the value provided by Intel architecture and process technology for our customers and in the marketplace.” Q1 Key Financial Information and Business Unit Trends Business Outlook Intel’s Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures or other investments that may be completed after April 16. Q2 2013 Full-Year 2013 For additional information regarding Intel’s results and Business Outlook, please see the CFO commentary at: www.intc.com/results.cfm. Status of Business Outlook Intel’s Business Outlook is posted on intc.com and may be reiterated in public or private meetings with investors and others. The Business Outlook will be effective through the close of business June 14 unless earlier updated; except that the Business Outlook for amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, impact of equity investments and interest and other, and tax rate, will be effective only through the close of business on April 23. Intel’s Quiet Period will start from the close of business on June 14 until publication of the company’s second-quarter earnings release, scheduled for July 17, 2013. During the Quiet Period, all of the Business Outlook and other forward-looking statements disclosed in the company’s news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company. Click here for the full release &gt; FREE AppDownload
