DoubleLine FundsDoubleLine Funds' Jeff Gundlach just wrapped up another one of his extremely popular webcasts for clients. The presentation, titled "Year Of The Snake," covered Gundlach's outlook for the global economy and financial markets. His closing remarks say it all: "Don't expect the stability of 2012 to endure in 2013." The stock markets, the European bond markets, the high-yield credit markets, the elevated fiscal deficits... Gundlach believes all of them are effectively coiled like snakes and are ready to bite us. "Meant for steady progress and attention to detail." The 2013 snake is the water snake, which is "lucky with finances." Color is black: space, deep waters, abyss, instability. "I really don't think Treasury bonds are that overvalued relativistically."  One of the failed trades of 2012 was France.&nbsp; France is probably a good short. The big loser was natural gas, but did great in the April-May period. The place to be was agriculture and equity markets.   And the "safe ones" yield nothing. "Investor complacecy is the only word you can use."&nbsp; Snake is coiled, ready to strike. Greece is in a full-blown depression. Portugal getting close. Unemployment trends continue to be unfavorable. One reason for the deficit problem is the collapse in capital gains income.&nbsp; The stock market has been flat for 12 to 13 years. The big issue now is the debt ceiling.&nbsp; We also face sequestration. "This problem never seems to want to be seriously addressed." "The half life is down to weeks." "40% of taxes will be paid by 0.7% of population." "They had the right order of magnitude, but they had the sign wrong."  Appreciated significantly against the Japanese yen and Brazilian real. However, following the huge surge "It's hard to be in love with the Japanese stock market today."&nbsp; We'll probably see some corrective action. "I love the Japanese stock market as a long-term investment." Emerging markets have broadly outperformed the S&amp;P 500. Gundlach continues to like long Shanghai Composite, short the S&amp;P 500. Not a lot of value in high-yield. 25% of farmers are 55-65. "Farming has got some future to it." Demand for food is growing. "Housing is bumblinge along." "People are overly bullish on housing." "Flabbergasted" by housing equity PEs. Would stay away from that. Also, huge rally in ABX (ie subprime) index.&nbsp; Speculators made off well. Higher in three years. US can print money. Agrees with Warren Buffett that the US should get an AAAA credit rating if possible. "It shows how human nature, fear and greed never really changes." FREE AppDownload
