It's assumed that the House will pass the Fiscal Cliff bill that the Senate passed last night, but until the last votes are taken, nothing is guaranteed. While liberals were seen as the huge source of concern yesterday, in the House, the big challenge is for Boehner to bring the votes. A lot of conservatives hate the bill. Tea Party representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah tweeted his opposition:  That partially echoes the sentiment of Marro Rubio, one of just 8 Senators who voted 'NO' last night. In a statement he said: “Thousands of small businesses, not just the wealthy, will now be forced to decide how they'll pay this new tax and, chances are, they'll do it by firing employees, cutting back their hours and benefits, or postponing the new hire they were looking to make. And to make matters worse, it does nothing to bring our dangerous debt under control." And here's what Heritage Action said last night, when it urged politicians to vote NO. This kick-the-can approach, necessitated by a president who refuses to stop campaigning and start seriously addressing our nation’s fiscal problems, is not an adequate solution to America’s coming fiscal crisis, which is a result of overspending, not under-taxing.  Allowing a tax increase to hit a certain segment of Americans and small businesses is not a solution; when combined with the coming Obamacare tax increases, it all but ensures a weaker economy. ... Regardless of those provisions, it is clear that Washington continues to fail the American people.  America needs less spending, less taxing and less borrowing by our government, which would allow more investment and job-creation by America’s private sector economy. To date, President Obama has proven to be fundamentally unserious about tackling our nation’s coming fiscal crisis.  America needs real leaders proposing real solutions, such as those found in Heritage’s Saving the American Dream plan or even the previous House-passed budget.  This kick-the-can approach falls woefully short. Heritage Action opposes the kick-the-can tax increase and will include it as a key vote on our legislative scorecard. So basically, conservatives want spending cuts NOW, and this bill doesn't deliver. That being said, if the bill gets killed, taxes rise for everyone, and there's still no new spending cuts.  FREE AppDownload
