First, the lay of the land: Global GDP growth is accelerating for the first time in three years, and Credit Suisse expects year-over-year growth to move from 2.7 percent in the second quarter of this year to as high as 3.75 percent by the end of next year. In the United States, housing remains relatively affordable and employment growth should boost consumer spending. Next year, euro-zone austerity measures will lessen, consumer demand should turn positive for the first time in two years and the economy should expand by 1.5 percent. At the same time, macroeconomic uncertainty is fading. The U.S. budget deficit is falling, and the European Central Bank has accepted responsibility as lender of last resort to indebted countries. Stanford University’s gauge of policy-related economic uncertainty has fallen to its lowest level since 2008 in the U.S. and since 2011 in Europe. As a result, U.S. bond yields are rising. Ten-year Treasury bond yields fell from a high of 5.2 percent in 2007 to 1.4 percent in July 2012, before reversing course due talk of Fed tapering to today’s 2.8 percent. Credit Suisse expects yields to head even higher in 2014, partly due to rising inflation expectations. Although analysts expect the Federal Reserve to start reducing its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases come January, they don’t see any actual Fed rate hikes in the offing, as they believe incoming chairwoman Janet Yellen will tolerate higher inflation to support employment growth. Finally, the fast-growing emerging markets everyone thought would drive global growth are losing their edge over supposedly stodgy developed countries. For starters, the emerging market growth advantage over the developed world should fall from 3.4 percentage points in 2012 to 3 percentage points in 2014 and 2.9 in 2015. The gap is closing partly because developed countries are healthier, which creates problems for emerging markets. What’s more, impending Fed tapering offers the prospect of increasingly competitive yields in safer environments. And while developed countries went through a painful deleveraging process during the financial crisis, Garthwaite points out, emerging markets did the opposite, and piled on the debt. Private sector debt-to-GDP levels are 10 percentage points above trend in emerging markets and 10 percentage points below trend in developed ones. “At the very least, there is less scope for leverage-driven growth in the emerging world – and it even raises the risk of financial turmoil going forward,” Garthwaite writes. With all of that in mind, here are seven investment strategies to consider: Go Overweight Equities…  Central bankers usually raise rates when global growth is accelerating. But with inflation either low or falling in most developed economies, there seems little danger of that this time. The European Central Bank just cut rates from 0.5 percent to 0.25 percent, and Credit Suisse expects the Bank of Japan to unleash another large monetary stimulus early next year. The four major central banks won’t raise rates until wages increase, Garthwaite says, something he doesn’t expect to happen before 2015. All of that bodes well for stocks as an asset class, as they tend to outperform bonds when growth is accelerating and inflationary pressures are low. What’s more, even if the Fed isn’t raising the Fed funds rate, the start of tapering will surely cause a spike in overall rates, which would instantly punish any and all fixed-income holdings. You’re better off in stocks. …But Underweight U.S. Equities Relative to Other Global Markets. American stocks tend to do well in times of crisis and underperform their peers in boom times, Garthwaite explains. Investors know it’s relatively easy for American companies to lay off workers when they need to cut costs and that U.S. policymakers usually act more quickly to counteract economic disasters than their European and Japanese counterparts. Garthwaite points out that the U.S. non-financial stocks carry a 45 percent price-to-book premium over the global peers, near a 12-year high and well above the long-term average of 30 percent. But with the crisis over, he cautions, U.S. equities will likely underperform those in Europe and Japan. Underweight Consumer Staples, Too.  Consumer staples tend to do better than other stocks when global growth is circling the drain. By definition, everyone needs the products the sector’s firms produce, hard times or not. In fact, consumer staples equity prices tend to follow those of another asset typically regarded as safe: bonds. Although bond prices are currently falling, consumer staples are still priced for turmoil, Garthwaite says. In other words, they’re expensive. Be Wary of Gold.  A strengthening U.S. dollar should hurt gold prices, which tend to fall as the greenback strengthens. And while some investors use gold as an inflation hedge, it currently appears overpriced relative to both housing and equities. All that said, keep your eyes open. Garthwaite notes that the real federal funds rate is well below 1 percent, a threshold at which gold prices tend to rise. A continuation of easy monetary policy could also support gold prices, as the balance sheets of the four largest central banks are set to grow 16 percent by the end of next year. Set Scandinavian Stocks Aside… Swedish and Danish equities, as well as the Swiss franc, provided shelter from the chaos in the rest of Europe, Garthwaite says. Now that the circus is winding down, however, they’re too pricey. …But Buy Japanese Equities.  Japanese firms have the most to gain from a pickup in global growth because they were unusually vulnerable to the downturn in the first place, Garthwaite says. Rigid Japanese labor laws made it nearly impossible for firms to lay off workers during the financial crisis, but improving growth both at home (an expected 2.2 percent next year, compared to 1.8 percent this year) and around the world should improve margins. In addition, Japan relies heavily on producing machinery and transportation equipment—the kinds of things that businesses and governments invest in when times are good. Which they are. Think About Businesses that Benefit from Corporate Spending  In addition to having historically low levels of debt, American corporations are sitting on a cash pile worth nearly 3.4 percent of GDP, compared to a long-term average of 1.2 percent. They’ve been letting that money pile up, Garthwaite says, because of lingering macroeconomic uncertainty. But with confidence increasing and a capital stock older than at any point in the last 43 years, companies could well dust off their checkbooks next year, both in the U.S. and in Europe. FREE AppDownload
