This is appropriate provided Ankara’s politicians, under the leadership of Prime Minister Erdogan, resolve the crisis before it seriously spills out onto the streets of Turkish cities. Mr. Erdogan has led a democratically-elected Islamist government that has governed effectively while acting as a bridge between west and east. During his three terms in office, Turkey has sidestepped economic and financial damage from the European crisis, markedly improved the living standards of millions of its citizens, and contained the political influence of its military. No wonder many characterized the country as a beacon for Middle Eastern countries that are going through particularly difficult transitions. Now, a lot of this is coming under pressure as Mr. Erdogan is challenged by religious and, to a lesser extent, secular movements. His government is embroiled in a growing corruption scandal that has already claimed the jobs of a few of his ministers. Some believe that even the Prime Minister may be at risk now that one of his close allies has called on him to resign. The confluence of domestic political instability and reliance on foreign capital has hit Turkish financial markets hard. Equities have sold off sharply, risk spreads on both sovereign and corporate bonds have widened, and the currency has weakened considerably – all consistent with expectations that the political crisis will harm economic growth, undermine foreign investment, encourage capital flight, discourage short-term inflows, and deplete international reserves. These market disruptions stand in stark contrast to the calm with which other markets have been looking at events in Turkey – a rational and appropriate response given expectations that Mr. Erdogan will be able to resolves things. In order to avoid a messy and far-from-certain political transition that would unsettle more than just the Turkish markets, Mr. Erdogan needs to quickly regain the domestic political narrative. He can do so by complaining less about external interference and a bias judicial, and by doing more to root out corruption. In the process, he would need to address accusations directed at him, and curb the outgrown sense of entitlement among some of his political allies. He would also need to embrace the independence of the central bank so that it can deal more effectively with the economic consequences of the crisis. Should Mr. Erdogan fail to do this effectively, Turkish contagion would likely be felt by a growing set of markets as investors start pricing in the following trio: the exposure of financial institutions to Turkey, the impact on global aggregate demand, and damage to the already-strained confidence in EM assets. FREE AppDownload
