C-SPANThe 113th Congress convened for the first time Thursday, and re-elected John Boehner as House Speaker, putting to rest rumors that the Ohio Republican's position was in jeopardy.  But Boehner begins the new session of Congress more vulnerable than he has been at any other point in his speakership.  Some GOP sources on the Hill had even speculated that there could be be a rare second ballot for Speaker, in the event that 16 conservative Republicans vote against Boehner.  In the end, only nine Republicans defected from Boehner. Out of the 426 votes cast, 220 Republicans voted to keep re-elect the Speaker, putting him over the 217-vote threshold needed to win.  Of the defections, three votes went to House Minority Leader Eric Cantor and two went to Tea Party favorite Allen West, a Florida Congressman who lost his re-election bid in 2012. Reps. Raul Labrador (R-ID), Justin Amash (R-MI), and Jim Jordan, the Republican Study Committee chair, also earned votes, as did former Comptroller General David Walker.  Here are our updates from the vote:  UPDATE 1:  Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI), one of the four congressmen "purged" by Boehner, just voted for Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID) as speaker.  UPDATE 2:  Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK) just voted for Cantor.  UPDATE 3:  Tea Party favorite Allen West, who lost his reelection to Congress, just got a vote for Speaker from Rep. Paul Broun (R-GA).  UPDATE 4:  Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) votes for Colin Powell. That's the second Democrat to defect from Pelosi.  UPDATE 5:  Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) gives Allen West his second vote for speaker.  UPDATE 6:  Rep. Tim Huelskamp (R-KS), another purged congressman, votes for Rep. Jim Jordan, the head of the Republican Study Committee.  UPDATE 7:  Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) votes for David Jones, the former GAO comptroller. Yes, that's pretty random.  UPDATE 8:  Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) votes Amash for Speaker. Both Massie and Amash are acolytes of retired Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX).  Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) a Blue Dog Democrat, defected from Pelosi.  UPDATE 9:  Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM) votes Cantor for Speaker. There are now 16 Republican votes against Boehner — 8 defections and 8 abstentions. Abstentions do not necessarily hurt Boehner however — the speaker needs an absolute majority of votes cast.  UPDATE 10:  Rep. Ted Yoho, a freshman Republican from Florida, votes Cantor for Speaker.  *Correction: An earlier version of this post incorrectly stated that Reps. Scott Garrett (R-N.J.) and Raul Labrador (R-ID) abstained from the speaker vote.  FREE AppDownload
