White HousePresident Obama nominates Janet Yellen for Federal Reserve chairwoman, October 9, 2013. Last night, the White House announced that it would nominate Federal Reserve vice chairwoman Janet Yellen to replace Fed chairman Ben Bernanke when his term expires in January. Yellen was widely seen as the frontrunner to receive the nomination — especially after her chief opponent for the job, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, withdrew his name from contention in September. She will be the first female Fed head, and given her "dovish" tendencies — meaning she tends to focus more on employment and less on inflation — economists and market participants mostly expect her to continue the policies of her predecessor. Yellen is expected to be easily confirmed in the Senate. During his nomination speech this afternoon, President Obama praised Yellen, calling her a strong leader and highlighting the warnings she gave of a credit bubble in 2007. Obama then turned the mic over to Yellen. "I am honored and humbled by the faith you've placed in me," she said to Obama. "The past six years have been tumultuous for the economy and challenging for many Americans," said Yellen. She acknowledged that while many were still struggling, progress has also been made on making the financial system safer. Here's Yellen's full statement: Statement by Federal Reserve Board Vice Chair Janet L. Yellen: Thank you, Mr. President, I am honored and humbled by the faith you have placed in me. If confirmed by the Senate, I pledge to do my utmost to keep that trust and meet the great responsibilities that Congress has entrusted to the Federal Reserve--to promote maximum employment, stable prices, and a strong and stable financial system. I'd also like to thank my spouse, George, and my son, Robert. I couldn't imagine taking on this new challenge without their love and support.  The past six years have been tumultuous for the economy and challenging for many Americans. While I think we all agree, Mr. President, that more needs to be done to strengthen this recovery, particularly for those hardest hit by the Great Recession, we have made progress. The economy is stronger and the financial system sounder. As you said, Mr. President, considerable credit for that goes to Chairman Bernanke for his wise, courageous, and skillful leadership. It has been my privilege to serve with him and learn from him. While we have made progress, we have farther to go. The mandate of the Federal Reserve is to serve all the American people, and too many Americans still can't find a job and worry how they will pay their bills and provide for their families. The Federal Reserve can help, if it does its job effectively. We can help ensure that everyone has the opportunity to work hard and build a better life. We can ensure that inflation remains in check and doesn't undermine the benefits of a growing economy. We can and must safeguard the financial system.  The Fed has powerful tools to influence the economy and the financial system, but I believe its greatest strength rests in its capacity to approach important decisions with expertise and objectivity, to vigorously debate diverse views, and then to unite behind its response. The Fed's effectiveness depends on the commitment, ingenuity, and integrity of the Fed staff and my fellow policymakers. They serve America with great dedication.  Mr. President, thank you for giving me this opportunity to continue serving the Federal Reserve and carrying out its important work on behalf of the American people. FREE AppDownload
