Apple's numbers are out! And they don't look good. As you can see below, Apple missed the expectations of buy-side investors, pretty much across the board. The thing that should make investors super worried is that iPhone sales were 47.8 million for the quarter. The buy-side was looking for 50 million units. The stock is off in after-hour trading by 10%. We are updating this post as we go, so click here for the latest. Here's how Apple did versus what buy-side investors were looking for (via Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster): In the press release announcing the earnings, CEO Tim Cook said, "We're thrilled with record revenue of over $54 billion and sales of over 75 million iOS devices in a single quarter," adding, "We're very confident in our product pipeline as we continue to focus on innovation and making the best products in the world." OTHER KEY NUMBERS: HERE ARE KEY DETAILS FROM THE EARNINGS REPORT AND THE EARNINGS CALL IN MORE DEPTH Tim Cook dodges question about Apple's TV plans with canned response, says sold 2 million Apple TV boxes last quarter &gt; Apple will change guidance moving forward, says CFO &gt; Tim Cook attempts to debunk rumor that iPhone supply orders have been cut &gt; Tim Cook's explanation for why Apple won't make an iPhone with a bigger screen &gt; Apple discloses China revenues for the first time &gt; HERE ARE OUR LIVE NOTES FROM THE EARNINGS CALL Over 80,000 strong. Part of my job is to preserve our culture. As a reminder, this quarter was 13 weeks, last quarter was 14 weeks. Strong y/y growth, iPhone, iPad, and iTunes sales. Net income $13.1 billion, just ahead of last year's 14 week quarter. Second, moving certain tooling costs. Recast op income for 2011 and 2012 for these changes and have info on Apple.com. Third, realigned presentation of product information to show revenue from product information. Exclusive of service and accessories. And revenue from accessories as a single line item. On Q/Q basis up 78%, more than IDC's projection. Strong iPhone growth in each geographic segment. Up 2X in China. iPhone 5 sales drove growth. 4-6 weeks of iPhone channel. iPhone and iOS an exceptional experience people love.  In businesses, across the board deploying iPhone. Customers love 4th gen iPad. iPad Mini a tremendous hit. In addition to the tremendous response, hit in the enterprise. Barclays roll out of 8,000 iPads was most successful in Barclays IT history. Outside US, 10,000 government workflow in Sweden, 10,000 in Netherlands. 3.4 million iPads in channel inventory, below target of 4-6 weeks of inventory. We intro'd new iMacs and retina macbooks. We were constrained on iMac. We believe Mac would have been higher without constraints.   Avg reveue per store was $16.3 million. Hosted 120 million visitors versus 110 million a year ago. 7% increase y/y. Katy: Why not buy more stock? Peter: This is something continuously assess. We are pleased. Expect to return $45 billion over three years. Shope: Deterioration at end of the quarter? Tim: If you look at iPhone sales across the quarter, constrained. iPhone 4 in constraint for entire quarter and sales remained strong. Peter: For iPhone, as we told you last year, 2.6 million in March quarter, so underlying sell thru 32.5 million, expect sell thru growth. Tim: One more point, I know there's been lots of rumors about order cuts. Let me take moment to comment, but not on any rumor. I would suggest it's good to question accuracy of any rumor about build plans. Even if any data point were accurate impossible to extrapolate for our business. Yields can vary, we have different suppliers, a long list that make any single data point not a great proxy for what's going on.  Toni: Comparing words... you will report in range, in past you beat EPS by 35%. Was there a buffer in there? Ptere: In the past a single point estimate, it was conservative, as reasonable confidence as you could have. Range of guidance we expect to report within as best we can.  I would point out 2 other things. 1. Market for PCs is weak. IDC around -6%. 2. We sold 23 million iPads. And we could have sold more than this because we could not build enough iPad Minis to come in to a demand balance. Some cannibalization there. Difference in 7 days, channel inventory, and late iMac more than explains the difference. If you look at portables alone. Notification, 4 trillion notifications. As Peter mentioned, 450 billion messages. 200 million Game Center, 800,000 apps. There's more we can do and you can bet we're thinking of all of it. Regarding mix, as example, iPad Mini GM sig below corp avg. Expect to meet demand in March. Tim: iPhone mix, 1. ASP for iPhone was essentially the same. Underneath that, mix of iPhone 5 to total iPhone v. iPhone 4S to total iPhone, those mixes are similar. In Q1 saw similar results on capacities.  Shipped iPad late in the quarter. Expanding in retail. Increased point of sales from 7k to 17k. Making great progress. Peter: I'll add to that, for total iPad, we would expect large y/y increase, but a post holiday sequential decline which is typical. Tim: Worth pointing out, from last quarter strong sales of iPad and iPad mini.  In terms of cannibalization, huge oppty for us. Never fear cannibalization, if we do, someone else will cannibalize. If someone buys iPad mini and it's first product, we know people buy other apple product. The halo effect. We're confident that will happen and we're seeing evidence of that on iPad.  iPhone 5 is fastest roll out. Made good strategic decision to introduce the iPad Mini and keep iPad 2 in the line. Reduction of ASP by $101 y/y, iPad unit grew faster than revenue. Expect ASP down on y/y basis. Finally, PC market grew in March quarter last year, will shrink this year. Underlying performance of company stronger than 5% growth implies. FREE AppDownload
