Bloomberg TVBloomberg TV's star anchor Sara Eisen announced on Twitter this morning that she will be joining CNBC. She's not the first Bloomberg TV employee to leave for the rival network lately. Dominic Chu, Josh Lipton and Sheila Dharmarajan have all joined CNBC over the last year.  While at Bloomberg TV, Eisen co-anchored "Bloomberg Surveillance" along with Tom Keene.  During her time at Bloomberg, Eisen has extensively covered the Forex markets and the eurozone crisis.  She has interviewed politicians, policymakers, central bankers and finance ministers, just to name a few.  Here are Eisen's Tweets about her latest move.  Excited to announce I'm moving on. Will start at @CNBC dec 16. Thank you for warm wishes. going to miss my friends and fam at @BloombergTV. And @bsurveillance excited for new chapter. Here's the full announcement from Nik Deogun: I am delighted to announce that Sara Eisen will be joining CNBC, effectiveMonday, December 16. Her assignment, in addition to anchoring a variety of shows as needed, will be to serve as a correspondent focusing on the global consumer. From Procter &amp; Gamble to Coca-Cola to Nike, consumer companies are some of the biggest, most diverse and far-reaching enterprises in the world. Each serves as an economic indicator and touches our lives in different ways. These companies are constantly challenged to adapt and innovate to appeal to a new and evolving consumer. I’m confident Sara will be at the forefront of making and breaking news on these companies while weaving larger stories about consumer behavior. Sara joins us from Bloomberg Television, where she was co-anchor of “Bloomberg Surveillance,” the network’s morning program. Her background is in the foreign exchange and fixed income markets and she has extensively covered the European debt crisis, interviewing top political leaders and finance ministers. She also covered the tsunami aftermath and Fukushima nuclear crisis on the ground in Japan. Sara is the editor of "Currencies After the Crash: The Uncertain Future of the Global Paper-Based Currency System," published by McGraw-Hill in January 2013. She holds a master's degree from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University and a bachelor’s degree from NYU. Please join me in welcoming Sara to CNBC. FREE AppDownload
