REUTERS/Chaiwat SubprasomA model poses with an Acer Liquid C1 smartphone equipped with Intel Inside chips during a news conference in Bangkok January 31, 2013.Intel's second quarter earnings release is out. The chipmaker reported earnings of $0.39 per share, right in line with analysts' consensus estimate. Revenue, however, came in at $12.81 billion – falling short of expectations for $12.89 billion. The company said its estimate for third quarter revenue was in the range of $13-14 billion. Analysts had previously estimated $13.72 billion. Shares are headed lower in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the release: SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Intel Corporation today reported second-quarter revenue of $12.8 billion, operating income of $2.7 billion, net income of $2.0 billion and EPS of $0.39. The company generated approximately $4.7 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $1.1 billion, and used $550 million to repurchase 23 million shares of stock. “In the second quarter, we delivered on our quarterly outlook and made several key product announcements,” said Intel CEO Brian Krzanich. “In my first two months as CEO, I have listened to a wide variety of views about Intel and our industry from customers, employees and my leadership team and I am more confident than ever about our opportunity as a company.” “Looking ahead, the market will continue buying a wide range of computing products,” he added. “Intel Atom and Core processors and increased SOC integration will be Intel's future. We will leave no computing opportunity untapped. To embrace these opportunities, I've made it Intel's highest priority to create the best products for the fast growing ultra-mobile market segment.” Q2 Key Financial Information and Business Unit Trends Business Outlook Intel’s Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures or other investments that may be completed after July 17. Q3 2013 Full-Year 2013 For additional information regarding Intel’s results and Business Outlook, please see the CFO commentary at: www.intc.com/results.cfm. Status of Business Outlook Intel’s Business Outlook is posted on intc.com and may be reiterated in public or private meetings with investors and others. The Business Outlook will be effective through the close of business September 13 unless earlier updated; except that the Business Outlook for amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, impact of equity investments and interest and other, and tax rate, will be effective only through the close of business on July 24. Intel’s Quiet Period will start from the close of business on September 13 until publication of the company’s third-quarter earnings release, scheduled for October 15, 2013. During the Quiet Period, all of the Business Outlook and other forward-looking statements disclosed in the company’s news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company. Risk Factors The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the third quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “may,” “will,” “should” and their variations identify forward-looking statements. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Many factors could affect Intel’s actual results, and variances from Intel’s current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company’s expectations. A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intel’s results is included in Intel’s SEC filings, including the company’s most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; FREE AppDownload
