Johnson’s finally out. Ullman’s in. And now Wall Street’s left wondering, what’s next? Perhaps most pertinently (and headline-grabbingly), analysts now find themselves debating, post-Johnson, whether the cash-strapped, marketshare-losing 111-year-old American institution is set to go private or stay public. Of course, many believe there exists a strong case for a JCP LBO.  And really, to most, it all makes sense.  Ullman’s CEO-ship buys Ackman, et. al. time to stabilize the internal turbulence while steadying the governance and operations of the retailer moving forward. Furthermore, the mere timing of Johnson’s departure suggests a turn toward the private.  Finally, and most publicly, JCP shareholders are already less-than-thrilled with the retailer’s recent antics, both internal and external, and most are seemingly ready for a successful and immediate LBO. Here’s the thing: this type of distressed transaction is tougher – and more improbable -  than those not familiar with/fluent in the distressed, turnaround, and/or performance improvement space think.  Let’s take a look at why this scenario is less-than-likely. Or at least less likely than the markets are suggesting.   First, the (current) analytics: As trading closed on Wednesday, here’s where things stand: ·         Current Share Price: ~$14 ·         Current Market Cap: ~$3.1B ·         Current Enterprise Value: ~$5.1B Furthermore, the company’s Book Value per Share of $14.46 currently hovers around the current share price, while anemic gross margins (31.4%) and a TTM EBITDA of (~$800MM) already seemingly spell doom for the retailer. Now, these numbers as outlined alone mean that an outside investor interested in JCP would have to be comfortable with spending multiple $billions alone to acquire, as it stands now, a rotting retail enterprise struggling to regain its economic footing in the declining department store space. Of course, this transaction hasn’t priced in JCP’s shrinking marketshare, declining sales, and complete absence of a strategy ready to stem the economic bleed (after all, the company’s burned through more than $2.1B in cash in the past 3 years - $600MM on Johnson’s strategy alone in the past 12 months).  In short, financially, this transaction will be more expensive than analysts already predict. Furthermore, this isn’t just a turnaround purchase – it’s a buy-into a complete reinvention.  Of a multi-billion dollar retailer with no current strong leadership, product, or consumer future. Not to mention a complete absence of an online foot-print in a declining bricks-and-mortar space. So, what about the other options on the table that could boost the attractiveness of JCP for an LBO play? Despite experts touting that, pre-LBO, “JCP could buy itself some time via real estate sales or leases, being able to pick up around USD1bn-USD1.5bn in cash, albeit less rent, if it offloaded some of its roughly 300 locations,” a successful real estate play seems unlikely. Think about: a month ago, Vornado Realty Trust - one of the largest owner/mangers of commercial real estate in the United States, ruining a portfolio totaling more than 100 million square feet - sold more than 40% of its shares (10MM shares at $16/share) of JCP at a significant loss, after J.C. Penney's declines already left the firm (and Pershing Squared) with combined losses topping $800MM. As optimistic as potential gains from a JCP real estate play may be, would Steve Roth have logically sold half of Vornado’s shares with such an immediately apparent and achievable real estate solution in hand?  Clearly not. Vornado’s move should have signaled to the marketplace a significant lack of confidence in the idea that real estate provides a sound and realistic solution to JCP’s current cash issues. Furthermore, think about this logically: what retailer/company is in the market for JCP real estate on either a macro or granular level? At a higher level, JCP’s an even tougher private sell than the market’s giving it credit for. Without flagellating Johnson further, the past 17+ months at JCP have involved an experiment to generate a very exciting and innovative 10% of the company, while the remaining 90% has ingloriously and expensively imploded. In terms of square footage success, it is an open question whether that approach can successfully be expanded to the rest of the square footage, and if so, at what cost and over what timeframe – an obvious “what-if” scenario few private equity firms would be willing to take on. Additionally, litigation with Macy’s over the Martha Stewart situation could severely inhibit any strategy regarding home goods merchandise. Finally, the losses incurred by going private by such shareholders as Ackman and Vornado seem, barring an immediate and unforeseen revelation or disaster, incredibly  unlikely.  In short, give JCP time and space to correct its course. And for those ignorantly screeching that JCP “does not deserve to be a public company,” learn your basics.  For those of us schooled in turnaround and distressed investing, success in these cases is most often relative, not absolute. As of today, JCP is trading at &gt;$14.  That’s hardly disastrous.  Historically disappointing? Sure. But the department store marketplace is changing. And we’d all do best to learn the new curvatures of the market. After all – American Apparel’s been trading at ~$1/share for more than a year now. Sure, it’s not JCP. But it’s not on the LBO/private equity chopping-block, either. Perspective, it seems, is, right now, the most expensive - and valuable -  commodity when it comes to retail and turnarounds.   Margaret Bogenrief is a partner with ACM Partners, a boutique financial advisory firm providing due diligence, performance improvement, restructuring and turnaround services.  She can be reached at 312-505-0700 or at margaret@acm-partners.com.   This article originally appeared at ACM Partners.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
