PM avoids public clash over human rights during first day of Far East trip despite British journalist being barred from a press conferenceDavid Cameron avoided a public clash with China over its human rights record during the first day of his trip to the Far East on Monday, despite a British journalist being barred from a press conference after apparently upsetting the country’s rulers. In contrast to his recent trip to Sri Lanka, where Mr Cameron publicly criticised the regime there for human rights abuses, the Prime Minister was silent on the issues of Tibet or China’s imprisoned Nobel Peace Prize winner, Liu Xiaobo. The contentious subject now threatens to dog the trip, on which he is accompanied by a large business delegation hoping to win contracts for the UK. Robert Hutton, from Bloomberg News, was told he could not attend Mr Cameron’s press conference with Li Keqiang, the Chinese premier. Bloomberg has been blocked in China after its reporters were understood to have carried out an investigation into the finances of President Xi Jinping. At the press conference, Mr Cameron made no mention of China’s apparent human rights abuses. Premier Li and Mr Cameron read prepared statements about the deals agreed. Questions were not allowed and when both leaders had finished, Nick Robinson, the BBC’s political editor, tried to shout that he wanted to ask a question, but he was ignored by the two leaders. Asked after the conference why he seemed to be avoiding the issues, Mr Cameron, said: “We spoke about all those issues as I always do. Whenever I come to China, I always raise human rights issues and I continue to do that on this visit.” He added: “The British policy towards Tibet is unchanged. I have met the Dalai Lama as Leader of the Opposition, I have met him as Prime Minister, I don’t have plans to meet him again. But my diary is for me to decide.” Asked to justify why he raised human rights during the Commonwealth Heads of Government summit last month but was less forthcoming in China, he said: “I think I’m totally consistent. I come to China and I don’t believe there’s a choice between raising growth and investment issues and raising human rights issues. I raise them both. “That’s what a policy of engagement is all about. There are some huge opportunities here in China for British jobs, British growth and British investment. “I want to make the most of them and that’s right for our country to compete and succeed in the global race. “But I also raised concerns about human rights and we have agreed on this visit to restart the China/Britain human rights dialogue. “We will start again next year, so that is an important achievement.” The news came as No<U+2009>10 was forced into the embarrassing position of protesting to Chinese leaders after the ban on Mr Hutton, who is UK political correspondent for the US media company. A spokesman for No<U+2009>10 said: “As soon as this issue [the threat of a ban] became apparent on Sunday, we raised our concerns at senior levels and made clear it would be completely inappropriate to exclude journalists from the press statements. “When we heard what had happened today we expressed our deep concern to senior Chinese officials about journalists being blocked.”  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
