The December jobs report will be released at 8:30 AM ET this morning. Economists are on average estimate that the U.S. economy created 152k new jobs during the month. However, TD Securities Senior Economist Millan Mulraine thinks the number will come in low at 107k. "We have been asked by many why our estimate for jobs is so low so," writes Mulraine. "What follows is a flushing out of the main themes with details that may appear tedious at times, but necessary." Here are the key points from Mulraine's note (emphasis ours): First, we are inclined to fade ADP, especially in December. ADP reconciles its payrolls with the BLS and since ADP generally undercounts jobs in a rising market (the opposite in a falling market) this now tends to make the adjustment at year end a large overestimation of December BLS payrolls. Over the past two years, ADP undercounted jobs by an average of 115k relative to the BLS over the Jan-Nov period. This fuelled an overestimation of payrolls by an average 144k in the past two Decembers. In 2012 ADP is missing even more jobs, undercounting 177k jobs relative to the BLS. If anything, the ADP number is thematically consistent with our weak payroll expectation. Second, unadjusted job growth is typically down 200 to 300k in December which may be surprising to many given the expectation of a ramp up in seasonal hiring. However, over the past 13 years NSA jobs have fallen in December, a trend that stands in sharp contrast to the 1990’s. Seasonal factors for December should reflect this, but with a discount factor marginally over 1 the BLS has yet to catch up to hiring trends that are pulled increasingly forward into November. We suspect the NSA job loss will be at the top end of the range, around 290k, an estimate supported by the larger increase in December claims this year relative to previous years. Given an estimated December discount factor of 1.006083 it would yield about 110k jobs. Third,  even with goods producing jobs rising (25k) at the fastest rate since last March (they fell 22k drop in November). We forecast 30k in education and health up from 18k in November, with some give back in information jobs 5k, flat finance jobs, and 20k in leisure/hospitality which is a tad off its 24k run rate since September. Business services is one of two big wild cards and at 30k is we expect a modest payback from the 48k average the prior two months driven by uncertainty on the fiscal cliff and a workweek and overtime hours that has been holding around the low end of its recent ranges. That leaves retail jobs. We expect these to fall about 10k which is a marked departure from recent strength. Unadjusted retail jobs surged at the second fastest rate since 2000 in November. Since September retail jobs have increased at the fastest pace since 1994, 100k above the average in 2002-2007, and 150k above the average in 2010 and 2011. We suspect a disappointing retail season; over hiring in the prior three months, and uncertainty on the fiscal cliff will lead to a lower NSA gain of about 90k in December. That estimate yields a decline of about 10k on a seasonally adjusted basis. Looking at the jobs report in this fashion gives us a forecast of about 105k to 110k. Mulraine, however, is more optimistic about the longer term outlook for jobs. "The turn in housing, decent credit growth, a Bernanke put that has turned from implicit to explicit, and the late inning stage of household deleveraging places the private economy in the best shape in six years," he writes. "Job growth will accelerate in 2013 as uncertainty dissipates; the negative effects from construction, government jobs, and finance abate, and as the broader economy continue to improve. "The risk, however, is that this won’t be obvious in the December jobs number." TD Securities FREE AppDownload
