WikimediaEnguerrand de Marigny on the gallows.We recently told you the story of why the world's first modern central banker was sentenced to death. As it turns out, executing finance ministers appears to have been a relatively common occurrence in early-modern France, where between  1314 and 1328 three different treasury superintendents were executed. With the help of Pierre Clément's "Trois drames historiques", André Liesse "Evolution of Credit and Banks in France from the Founding of the Bank of France to the Present Time," and Herodote.net [FR]  we present how they went down: Counterfeiting was a big problem in 13th century France, and when King Philip the Fair took power in 1286, he tried to solve the problem by devaluing the realm's currency.    He went overboard. In the span of 20 years, French coin (livres) was devalued 40 times. Meanwhile, he banned the exchange of gold and silver, meaning French citizens were stuck holding worthless currency. The kingdom was never in danger of defaulting, with Philip having pledged his personal accounts as collateral for the new currency.  But everything backfired, and counterfeiting surged anew.  By 1313, "weak money" was worth twice as less than "strong money," which provoked outrage among French. Enguerrand de Marigny was a courtier who already possessed vast amounts of wealth as a courtier, and Philip admired his intelligence. So he appointed Marigny chancellor of the whole country. Soon after he did so, Philip declared war on Flanders (for reasons too arcane to discuss here). Now he needed more money, but the value of French livre had already plummeted. So Marigny created the Estates General as a way to pass tax and revenue generating measures more democratically.  In 1314, Philip died, and power passed to his eldest son Louis. Louis recognized Marigny had the best interests of the kingdom in mind. But the rest of the kingdom believed Marigny to be a venal thief. After Philip's brother accused Marigny of sorcery, and as the cries among the populace for justice grew, Louis gave in and had Marigny hanged. The elite still believed Marigny got a raw deal, and Louis ended up posthumously pardoning Marigny giving his children 10,000 pounds.  Less than a decade later, an even worse fate befell France's Gerard de la Guette. La Guette was appointed chancellor by Louis' successor. When that king passed, Charles IV the Fair took power. Charles quickly realized that the kingdom was facing a deficit of 1.2 million pounds, and fingered  la Guette as the culprit.  PHPBBLa Guette was subsequently tortured to death by something called "the wooden horse." Here at left is an image showing what that may have looked like.  The last in this unhappy line was Pierre Remy, who historians say really was a crook. He was hanged by Philip VI in 1328. Between 1300 and 1661, France executed or imprisoned five finance ministers or chancellors. Thankfully, occupational safety laws have since improved. FREE AppDownload
