REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJeffrey GundlachJeff Gundlach of DoubleLine Funds just wrapped up his latest public webcast. He reiterated his calls for interest rates and inflation to remain low. He also reiterated his worry about the longer risks of high Federal debts and deficits. Gundlach spent quite a bit of time on the turmoil in the emerging markets, particularly India. "I would not own the Indian stock market," he said. "It looks very scary." Gundlach attributed India's woes to its collapsing foreign currency reserves and it's heavy reliance on external financing. He pointed to the tight inverse correlation betweent the rupee and U.S. interest rates as evidence of this. But he doesn't hate all of the emerging markets. Despite their local problems, both China and Russia are insulated thanks to low reliance on foreign capital. "I think Russia and China are interesting to own," he said. How would he trade this? "Long China, short India. Long Russia, short India." "The Federal Reserve, I think is making a big mistake." Fed governors have been eerily quiet; we haven't heard from a pure governor since July. An emerging market crisis is a candidate for something that could cause rates to fall.  Risk of inflation diminshes as well. There's a very tight correlation between U.S. interest rates and the Indian rupee.&nbsp; Foreign currency reserves have collapsed. "I would not own the Indian stock market. It looks very scary." He doesn't hate all EMs. Just doesn't like India. China doesn't need foreign capital. They have internal financing. Insulated. "Long China short other emerging markets is a winning trade." Russia is also insulated because it doesn't need foreign capital. "I think Russia and China are interesting to own." Watch out for this one. Not a very strong sign for inflation.  The best candidate for a problem in the emerging markets. Net interest on debt will become a problem. This is why the Fed needs to keep rates so low. Social Security deficit is tame now, but explodes in just a few years. Spanish home prices still down significantly. Spanish debt delinquencies extremely high. S&amp;P Homebuildiners ETF is still very high, back to 2007 levels. Thought that was a bubble. Mortgage applications index 1) is falling and 2) never really rebounded. "Housing is not the economic tailwind it used to be." There won't be a regime change. Odds are better Anthony Weiner wins primary. "I kind of like gold." Likes pair trades. Affecting emerging markets. FREE AppDownload
