Chris Sloan/AirchiveThis morning, US Airways and American Airlines have announced an $11 billion merger, that has been expected for a long time. AA has posted a big FAQ, which includes a whole section on loyalty programs, elite status, miles, and everything else. Basically, for now everything remains the same as the companies will be operated separately. Eventually there will be some combination. (via Jake Sherman) ---------------------------- There is no immediate impact to the AAdvantage program. At this time, American and US Airways will remain separate companies and each company will maintain its current loyalty program — our AAdvantage program and US Airways Dividend Miles. AAdvantage miles earned by customers are secure and existing miles will continue to be honored. The AAdvantage program, including the elite program and its various facets such as lifetime status, upgrades, and bonus mileage, are intact. In addition, customers can continue to earn miles through existing AAdvantage participating companies and can redeem those miles for the same great awards — flights, upgrades, car rentals and hotels just to name a few. At this time, American and US Airways will remain separate companies and each company will maintain its current loyalty program, which means we will maintain our AAdvantage program, other customer service programs, and our current relationships with oneworld and other airline partners. American remains committed to providing a superior customer experience with a focus on delivering what our customers value most — the newest fleet with our upcoming aircraft deliveries, network strength in the important cities of the world and world-class products, service and technology. Once the merger is complete, the new American will evaluate how best to structure its loyalty program. Ultimately, the combined company is expected to offer members more opportunities to earn and burn miles from an expanded global network of routes and partnerships, unmatched redemption options including flights, hotels, car rentals, vacation packages, one-way awards and lounge memberships, and much more. At this time, American and US Airways will remain separate companies and each company will maintain its current loyalty program — our AAdvantage program and US Airways Dividend Miles. We expect the transaction to close in the third quarter of 2013, subject to customary approvals and closing conditions, and will keep you updated throughout the process. Not at this time. American and US Airways will remain separate companies and each company will maintain its current loyalty program. Customers do not earn AAdvantage miles on US Airways today; and there is no immediate impact to the AAdvantage program. No, AAdvantage miles are secure and existing miles will continue to be honored. In addition, customers can continue to earn miles through existing AAdvantage participating companies and can redeem those miles for the same great awards — flights, upgrades, car rentals and hotels just to name a few. At this time, American and US Airways will remain separate companies and each company will maintain its current loyalty program — our AAdvantage program and US Airways Dividend Miles. At this time, American and US Airways will remain separate companies and each company will maintain its current loyalty program. Once the merger is complete, the new American will evaluate how best to structure its loyalty program. Ultimately, the combined company is expected to offer members more opportunities to earn and burn miles from an expanded global network of routes and partnerships, unmatched redemption options including flights, hotels, car rentals, vacation packages, one-way awards and lounge memberships, and much more. We expect the transaction to close in the third quarter of 2013, subject to customary approvals and closing conditions, and will keep you updated throughout the process. At this time, American and US Airways will remain separate companies and each company will maintain its current loyalty program. Once the merger is complete, the new American will evaluate how best to structure its loyalty program. Ultimately, the combined company is expected to offer members more opportunities to earn and burn miles from an expanded global network of routes and partnerships, unmatched redemption options including flights, hotels, car rentals, vacation packages, one-way awards and lounge memberships, and much more. We expect the transaction to close in the third quarter of 2013, subject to customary approvals and closing conditions, and will keep you updated throughout the process. FREE AppDownload
