Business Insider/Mike NudelmanIn the fall of 2010, Twitter was in chaos. The micro-blogging site, which had been founded four years earlier, still wasn't generating much revenue despite having 145 million users. The site was still crashing constantly. The staff were at each other's throats. Chaos, moreover, was not an unfamiliar state for Twitter to be in. Twitter's first CEO, Jack Dorsey, had taken the company from idea to reality, but then made a mess of the place before getting fired. Twitter's current CEO, Evan "Ev" Williams, had overseen huge user growth but was now moving too slowly and indecisively. Twitter's board decided it now had to fire Williams, too. But who would take over? A former stand-up comic and entrepreneur named Dick Costolo was one possibility. He was Twitter's COO. But Costolo had never run a large company before, so he hardly seemed the guy to finally get the chaos under control. The largest company Costolo had managed, in fact, was the one he had founded, Feedburner. A content syndication service, Feedburner had had fewer than 100 employees when Google acquired it in 2007. Twitter already had more than 300. Also, Costolo was 47. In Silicon Valley, that's old. Famous founders like Mark Zuckerberg and Drew Houston were half Costolo's age and more accomplished. At wits end, the Twitter board reviewed its options. It could make Costolo an interim CEO until it found someone more established. Twitter had worked frequently with an executive recruiter, Paul Daversa, to unearth talent, and the board had a few more serious-seeming candidates in mind. Or the board could take a chance on Costolo, who had risen to the occasion once before. The Twitter COO job had been a leap for Costolo, and he had excelled at it. Costolo also already knew the company's inner workings, and he had the respect of Twitter's management team, partially because he had helped hire most of them. Fred Wilson, a Feedburner investor and partner in Union Square Ventures, and one of Twitter's board members, trusted him.  Flickr/Ford SchoolDick Costolo, the stand-up comic who would finally get the chaos under control. In typical chaotic Twitter fashion, the choice was ultimately made by the man who was getting sacked. In addition to being Twitter's CEO, Evan Williams was its largest shareholder. Williams and Costolo had known each other for more than a decade, having been introduced by a mutual friend in the mid-1990's, Eric Lunt. To soften the blow of his ousting, Twitter's board told Williams he could be part of the CEO search process. Initially, Williams wasn't thrilled with the idea of Costolo taking his place. But he came around and eventually pushed for Costolo to permanently take his job.  On October 4 2010, Williams resigned as Twitter's CEO. Costolo took over. With Twitter set to go public at a $15+ billion valuation next month, the company's success seems as though it has always been smooth sailing. In fact, it has been anything but. The whole Twitter story, for example, even starts with an argument: Who is really responsible for the company's success? Does the credit belong to Jack Dorsey, who came up with the original idea? Does it belong to Evan Williams, who backed the concept and then took over as CEO?  Should it go to Dick Costolo, who turned Twitter into a real business? Or do Twitter's investors or other lesser-known heroes deserve the nod? The truth is that, more than any other rocketship Silicon Valley startup in memory, Twitter's success has been a product of collaboration, not one genius visionary. At different times in its history, different people have provided the leadership, vision, and skills that the company needed.  But this group collaboration has been the farthest thing from pretty. When Costolo was handed Twitter three years ago, the company was a mess. Its four-year history was bloodied with founder feuds, failed products, office politics, and executive turnover.  "The act of getting from there to here," Benchmark Capital's Peter Fenton says, "was violent." Why was Twitter's early history so chaotic? And how did it finally get the place under control? Over the years, we've reported many episodes in the Twitter story. Recent interviews with a number of sources, as well as reporting by other tech journalists, have helped us fill in some gaps.  So here is the wild ride of this year's mega tech IPO... FREE AppDownload
