Inquiring minds are investigating job creation and losses during the economic recovery. Data for following Tableau Software interactive map is courtesy of Economic Modeling Specialists. The interactive tool below may take a while to load. Please give it time on a slow connection. Usage Notes: Hover your cursor over any line to see additional information. You can also select a single category from the drop-down boxes to isolate a particular type of job.  Number and types of jobs since 2007:   Mish's Global Economic Analysis Gains and losses since the end of 2007: Mish's Global Economic Analysis   Job Winners Job Losers Lost and Gone Forever The three largest net losers (construction, manufacturing, retail trade) have a net combined total of -5,189,872 since 2007. Most of those jobs are lost and gone forever. Another 300,807 real estate jobs are lost and gone forever, as are 381,122 Finance and Insurance jobs, and  379,502 Information jobs. Economic Modeling Data Notes Data is yearly, so the period 2007-2012 is from the beginning of 2007 to the end of 2012. Snapshots below are from end-of year numbers. Data is from multiple sources as explained below so it will not exactly match BLS reported numbers. Comments from Economic Modeling Specialists: “Our data is used by many to research and understand regional employment trends and dynamics. It’s composed of comprehensive information on industries, occupations, demographics — as well as things like occupational skills, education, training, and even the names and size of companies in your region broken down by industry. To do this we link nearly 90 data sources — from federal sources like the Bureau of Labor Statistics to state and private sources. If you’ve ever worked with this sort of information, you know it can be hard to collect and present. It’s also often incomplete and outdated. So we organize the data, bring it up to date, and build software and reports around it so you can put it to use more quickly and effectively” Thanks to Economic Modeling Specialists and Mike Klaczynski at Tableau Software for this post. FREE AppDownload
