Earlier, I wrote about what Dell was likely to do now that it is taking itself private. I suggested that Michael Dell and his private-equity backers would coin money, in part by paying themselves a huge one-time dividend with the cash sitting on Dell's balance sheet. I also bemoaned the fact that Michael Dell had to take his company private to coin this money instead of executing his plan as a public company and sharing the loot with his current shareholders. More broadly, I complained that too few public-company management teams (like Dell's) have the balls to tell short-term public-market investors to take a hike and implement long-term strategic plans. And that is indeed a bummer. But it's also the reality. Most public-company management teams are so cowed by Wall Street's short-term demands that they sacrifice the vision and cojones that enabled them to build big public companies in the first place. And then they just manage their companies from quarter to quarter while avoiding the tough, ballsy decisions that separate great companies from good ones. Anyway, Dell has decided to go private. So the questions are: Earlier, I speculated about what a generic private-equity firm might do with Dell after taking it private. I have since spoken with sources familiar with the specific Dell situation. So I have some better information. Here's what the sources told me: The private-equity firm backing Dell, Silver Lake, has a long history of investing in troubled tech companies, and it has posted excellent returns over the years. Silver Lake's target investment time horizon is about 5 years, which is about 100-times longer than the time horizon of the typical public-market investor. So Silver Lake is willing to depress Dell's earnings and cash flow for a couple of the years while investing heavily to transform the company--thus, hopefully, creating a more valuable Dell over the long term. (Public market investors and wimpy management teams take note: Your obsession with quarterly performance creates the opportunity for firms like Silver Lake to come along and buy your companies on the cheap, thus coining money for their private-market investors. In short, your quarterly earnings obsession is ruining companies and destroying value. So grow a pair, tell Wall Street to be patient, and focus on creating value for the long term!) SEE ALSO: We Need To Stop Maximizing Profit And Start Maximizing Value * What I mean by "investing in pricing" is cutting prices on hardware and, thus, reducing profit per unit. This will hurt profit margins but make the company's solutions more attractive to customers. And given that the focus is now on "solutions," they'll be looking to sell the hardware at closer to cost and then make money on add-on software and services.  FREE AppDownload
