YouTubeSeth Klarman's Baupost Group will be returning money to investors at year-end. As II Alpha reports, though the amount has yet to be determined, this would be only the second time the hedge fund has returned money in the firm's 31-year history. With the world of asset managers, as we recently noted, increasingly become herd-like beta-chasers, it seems Klarman - just as he noted earlier in the year - will return capital unless investment opportunities dramatically increased - and that hasn't happened.  Via II Alpha,  Seth Klarman’s Baupost Group has decided to return some money to investors at year-end, but it has not yet determined the amount, according to a person familiar with the firm’s plans. This would be only the second time Baupost returned money to investors in the Boston-based investment firm’s 31-year history. The previous time was in 2010, and Baupost subsequently raised money in early 2011. ... In a letter dated April 29, Klarman said the goal is “to better match our assets under management with the opportunity set we see for new investments.” The decision was made, in part, after a series of discussions with clients on the firm’s quarterly webcasts with investors. The firm’s goal is to keep assets under management at $25 billion, according to the person familiar with Baupost. ...  Baupost’s performance is even more impressive given its penchant for holding large amounts of cash. It has averaged 33 percent of assets in cash, and its cash balance can reach as high as 50 percent. It is now in the mid-30 percent range, up slightly from 32 percent at year-end. ...  However, the firm does not use leverage to try to boost returns. ... “Our willingness to invest amidst falling markets is the best way we know to build positions at great prices, but this strategy, too, can cause short-term underperformance,” Klarman explained in an investor letter earlier this year.  and Klarman's previous thoughts: To wit: If the economy is so fragile that the government cannot allow failure, then we are indeed close to collapse And the rest of Klarman's sermon, serving as the perfect counter to the voodoo shamans operating their Keynesian religion in the Marriner Eccles building. From Seth Klarman of Baupost:  Is it possible that the average citizen understands our country's fiscal situation better than many of our politicians or prominent economists? Most people seem to viscerally recognize that the absence of an immediate crisis does not mean we will not eventually face one. They are wary of believing promises by those who failed to predict previous crises in housing and in highly leveraged financial institutions. They regard with skepticism those who don't accept that we have a debt problem, or insist that inflation will remain under control. (Indeed, they know inflation is not well under control, for they know how far the purchasing power of a dollar has dropped when they go to the supermarket or service station.) They are pretty sure they are not getting reasonable value from the taxes they pay. When an economist tells them that growing the nation's debt over the past 12 years from $6 trillion to $16 trillion is not a problem, and that doubling it again will still not be a problem, this simply does not compute. They know the trajectory we are on. When politicians claim that this tax increase or that spending cut will generate trillions over the next decade, they are properly skeptical over whether anyone can truly know what will happen next year, let alone a decade or more from now. They are wary of grand bargains that kick in years down the road, knowing that the failure to make hard decisions is how we got into today's mess. They remember that one of the basic principles of economics is scarcity, which is a powerful force in their own lives.  They know that a society's wealth is not unlimited, and that if the economy is so fragile that the government cannot allow failure, then we are indeed close to collapse. For if you must rescue everything, then ultimately you will be able to rescue nothing.  They also know that the only reason paper money, backed not by anything tangible but only a promise, has any value at all is because it is scarce. With all the printing, the credibility of our entire trust-based monetary system will be increasingly called into question.  And when you tell the populace that we can all enjoy a free lunch of extremely low interest rates, massive Fed purchases of mounting treasury issuance, trillions of dollars of expansion in the Fed's balance sheet, and huge deficits far into the future, they are highly skeptical not because they know precisely what will happen but because they are sure that no one else--even, or perhaps especially, the  policymakers—does either. FREE AppDownload
