ShutterstockConsumer prices rose more than expected in June. The headline consumer price index jumped 0.5%, which was more than the 0.3% expected. "The gasoline index rose sharply in June and accounted for about two thirds of the seasonally adjusted all items change," said the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Other energy indexes were mixed, with the electricity index rising, but the indexes for natural gas and fuel oil declining. The food index increased in June as the index for food at home turned up after declining in May." Excluding food and energy, prices climbed 0.2%, which was right in line with expectations. Year-over-year, prices climbed 1.8%, or 1.6% excluding food and energy. "In general, we do not believe there is much disinflation in the economy," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna and Carl Riccadonna in a note to clients before the report. Here's the BLS on core inflation: The index for all items less food and energy increased 0.2 percent in June. The shelter index, which rose 0.3 percent in May, increased 0.2 percent in June. The indexes for rent and owners’ equivalent rent both increased 0.2 percent. The index for medical care, which declined in May, increased 0.4 percent in June, its largest increase since last July. The index for medical care commodities, which declined 0.5 percent in May, rose 0.5 percent in June as the prescription drug index turned up. The index for medical care services rose 0.4 percent in June after being unchanged in May. The apparel index increased 0.9 percent in June, its largest increase since August 2011. The index for new vehicles, unchanged in May, rose 0.3 percent in June. The indexes for household furnishings and operations, personal care, and tobacco also increased in June. In contrast to these increases, the index for airline fares declined in June, falling 1.7 percent after rising 2.2 percent in May. The index for used cars and trucks fell for the second month in a row, declining 0.4 percent. The recreation index also declined, falling 0.1 percent. The index for all items less food and energy increased 1.6 percent for the 12 months ending June. The shelter index increased 2.3 percent over that span, the index for medical care rose 2.1 percent, and the new vehicles index rose 1.2 percent. The index for used cars and trucks was one of the few to decline over the last 12 months, falling 2.3 percent. Here's break down via the BLS: BLS Click Here For Updates » FREE AppDownload
