Most of the 35 councils holding elections in England and Wales will not declare their results until later today but with six results in so far, the Tories had lost 74 seats and relinquished control of two local authorities. The Lib Dems lost 16 seats but Ukip were the night's biggest winners with 42 gains. Labour added 26 council seats to their tally. Ukip increased its share of the vote significantly and claimed second place behind Labour in the by-election taking place in David Miliband's former seat of South Shields. The Liberal Democrats secured just 352 votes in the contest, losing their deposit. Mr Farage said his party was showing itself capable of winning seats in Parliament. "It's been a remarkable result for us," he said. "We have always done well in European elections... but people haven't seen us as being relevant to local elections or in some ways general elections. "So for us to be scoring, on average, 26% of the vote where we stand is I think very significant indeed." "This wave of protest certainly isn't short-term, it's lasting," he told Daybreak on ITV1. "If we get a by-election that comes up in the next few months that is not a safe Tory or Labour seat, but is a marginal, I think we’ve got every chance of winning it." He argued that the key issue for his party would be the scale of any increase in immigration from Bulgaria and Romania. “I think to a large extent what will determine UKIP’s success next year and the year after is what happens with Romania and Bulgaria. “We have put out the the big warning that a lot of people are coming and it will lead to unemployment and, I’m afraid, more crime in our cities…We’ve had 30,000 Romanian arrests in London alone in the last five years, it is very, very worrying.” A Ukip spokesman said the party was "delighted" and on course to win "well over" 100 county council seats, with counting still to take place in 28 English authorities and the Isle of Anglesey in Wales. He said the council successes were a "stepping stone" to the party's eventual aim of winning parliamentary elections. He added: "If this is any sign at all, it will make a few MPs feel a bit less comfortable in their parliamentary seats.” Grant Shapps, the Conservative Party chairman conceded that Ukip had had a good night. "Ukip have done well, I don't make any secret about that at all. We need to make sure that we are addressing the concerns of the public," he told Daybreak. "We have lost a lot of good councillors in the counts overnight. People have sent a message, we get it, we hear what people are saying, people are concerned that we get on with the big issues facing hard-working people in this country, like fixing the economy, sorting out the welfare system, helping hard-working people to get on. "We have seen that we have managed to get the deficit down by a third, immigration down by a third and we are working to make sure that in this country work always pays. "There is a lot more to do, there's two years to go until the next election and in the end it will be a choice between whether you want Ed Balls and Ed Miliband, for Labour, in Downing Street or David Cameron trying to make sure that this country is always a place where hard-working people can get on." In the local elections, Ukip won 16 seats in Lincolnshire, 10 in Hampshire, nine in Essex, three in Gloucestershire, three in Somerset and one in Dorset. The South Shields contest, triggered by David Miliband's decision to quit as an MP, was won by Labour's Emma Lewell-Buck with a reduced majority of 6,505. Ukip's Richard Elvin secured 24 per cent of the vote, but it was a bad result for the Conservatives who finished third and a humiliation for the Liberal Democrats. Nick Clegg's party lost its deposit after securing just 352 votes, finishing in seventh position behind an independent, an independent socialist and the BNP. Overnight counts took place at six authorities which were held by Conservatives, who retained control in Dorset, Essex, Hampshire and - narrowly - Somerset, where they lost five seats and the Liberal Democrats lost four. But as well as in Lincolnshire, they lost overall control in Gloucestershire, where there were four gains for Labour and three for Ukip. Initial results in Staffordshire, where counting will continue later, saw some Labour gains and the Conservatives losing their hold on Tamworth. Of the six Tory-held county council seats up for grabs in the borough, three fell to Labour and a fourth to an independent candidate. Tamworth's Tory MP Christopher Pincher acknowledged the impact of Ukip but said the predicted defeat of his party had failed to materialise. He said: "Clearly, some of our vote has switched to Ukip - probably some Labour voters have as well - so we have to make sure that we redouble our efforts to explain to our supporters and potential supporters what we are doing on the issues that matter to them, like immigration, like welfare reform, like Europe. "I think one of the key things that people have to recognise is that if you vote Ukip and you're a Conservative you end up with a Labour county councillor." Senior politicians from the three main parties attempted to explain the rise of Ukip, which could have major implications, particularly for David Cameron as he attempts to calm the fears of Conservatives who are anxious about the gains. The Prime Minister is under pressure from within his party to enshrine in law before the 2015 election his commitment to hold an in/out referendum on the UK's membership of the European Union. Mr Cameron has promised the public a vote before the end of 2017 if he wins the next election, but London mayor Boris Johnson is among those calling for him to legislate for that commitment in this Parliament. Justine Greening, the Tory International Development Secretary, said Ukip did not have any "substance" and insisted the Government was listening to people's concerns. She told BBC1's Question Time: "I think as people take more of a look at Ukip they will be able to form their own opinion about whether there is any substance underneath the policies. "I personally don't think that there is but I think it's up to voters to decide, obviously." But Deputy Labour leader Harriet Harman warned that Ukip's rise was a "wake-up call" for the parties, while saying that she felt some of the party's politics were quite 'threatening'. She said: "We should listen very seriously if people are feeling disaffected and disenchanted. It is a challenge to us. It's a wake-up call for us to actually listen to people who feel that times are hard and wonder whether any of us have actually got the answers." She added: "I don't take the easy assumption 'Oh well, it's great because it's going to take votes off the Conservatives'. I think some of their politics is quite threatening and we shouldn't be complacent either." Lib Dem veteran Baroness Williams of Crosby told the programme Ukip would not "last that long" as a political force and they were "essentially...trading on protest". Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik demanded a "credible explanation from Nick Clegg regarding what would happen after South Shields. Mr Opik, who lost his Montgomeryshire seat in 2010, said: "Veteran members deserve to know how this electoral crisis will be fixed." A Lib Dem source warned Ukip posed a "serious problem" for Mr Cameron and would prevent a Tory majority in 2015. The source said: "Most people who voted Ukip are ex-Tories who don't think the Conservative Party is conservative enough. "They pose a very serious problem for David Cameron. He must either shift the Tories to the right, and so lose centre ground voters to the Liberal Democrats, or shift his party to the centre, and split the right, helping the Liberal Democrats. "Some people who voted Ukip did so to register a protest, and some of these used to register their protest by voting Lib Dems. We understand their frustration. And we understand why they didn't vote for us this time - because we are no longer a party of protest; we are a party of government.” The source added: "These results are set to prove that the Tories can't win a majority in 2015, partly because the Lib Dems remain strong in held seats, and partly because Ukip has peeled off a significant section of Tory support."  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
