In the mutual fund space, some of the most popular and well-known allocation funds are target-date mutual funds. These days, many 401(k) plans include target-date funds, allowing investors to simply choose their expected retirement date and let the funds' managers do the rest (this usually means following a preset "glide path" that places more emphasis on bonds as the retirement date approaches). If you're interested in target-date mutual funds, you can read the latest Morningstar research on them here. An alternative to target-date offerings are funds that hold both equity and fixed-income securities, usually within specified bands, moving into and out of asset classes more fluidly than a predetermined glide path. Within allocation funds, investors will find a variety of "neutral allocations" (a starting point for allocating to equity versus fixed-income instruments) and strategies. Some will be tactical, others will follow a more static allocation--for example, 70% to equity and 30% to fixed-income, with little deviation during various market cycles. Morningstar identifies three categories of domestic allocation funds based on historical portfolio weightings between equities and fixed-income instruments. (World-allocation funds fall into their own category, and it's within this category that we've seen the broadest range of strategies and asset mixes. For that reason, we do not include it in this discussion.) Conservative-allocation funds tend to place more emphasis on fixed income and less on equities, typically investing 20%-50% in equities and 50%-80% in bonds and related securities. Moderate-allocation funds are more slanted toward stocks but generally keep these allocations to 50%-70%, with the remainder in fixed income. Finally, Aggressive-allocation funds are the most heavily invested in equities, generally allocating 70%-90% of the portfolio to them. Keep in mind that funds and managers can allocate to various sectors and industries within equities and fixed income. And, in terms of fixed-income securities, allocations may be to any number of income-generating securities including high-yield or investment-grade corporate bonds, convertible securities, preferred stock, government bonds, or mortgage- or asset-backed bonds, to name a few.  That asset mix can materially affect a fund's risk/reward profile and will affect what investors can reasonably expect from a fund's performance. As a result, before buying a fund, it's important to understand which securities the fund has held in the past and whether the manager moves within sectors frequently, chooses to remain invested in a certain type of fixed-income security, or prefers a certain sector such as financials or utilities. Knowing those characteristics increases the chance of investors using an allocation effectively.  Returns and RiskWhile the Morningstar Categories refer to mutual funds, closed-end funds, and exchange-traded funds, Table 1 below highlights the 23 domestic allocation funds within the CEF universe with a least a one-year track record. On a total-return basis, many of the funds have fared well over the latest three-year period and nearly all have positive annualized returns over the five-year period ending Aug. 2, 2013. Note that many of the funds on the list use leverage, magnifying returns. Compared with SPDR S&amp;P 500 (SPY) all have underperformed over the three-year period, but five-year numbers (which include 2008) look stronger likely because of the allocation funds' bond holdings, which generally held up better during the crash than equities. Due to that defensive aspect and the recent years' bull market in bonds, it should not surprise investors that the average conservative-allocation fund has outpaced the average moderate- and aggressive-allocation fund over the past five years (a category average gain of 10% versus 8% and 6%). But, as the equity market has remained strong over the past year, the average aggressive-allocation fund far outpaced the average conservative- or moderate-allocation fund (27% versus 13% and 14%). Despite variations in overall strategy and allocation, essentially all of the funds on the list in Table 1 are trading at discounts, most of them historically wide discounts. Of note is the highest-distributing fund on the list, Cornerstone Progressive Return (CFP), which is selling at a 15% premium. On its face, Cornerstone Progressive Return doesn't look terrible, but a deeper look shows a fund that has many red flags. First, it is a serial distributor of destructive return of capital (it pays 25% of net asset value each year), which is particularly worrisome because of the fund's persistent premium pricing (return of capital reinvested at a discount to NAV can actually be beneficial to long-term shareholder value). The fund tends to hold most of its assets in other CEFs and had a relatively high expense ratio (1.34%) in the latest fiscal year. We've written numerous articles about our distaste for funds managed by Cornerstone Advisors. Persistent, unwarranted premiums and dubious rights offerings make this fund a poor choice for investors. For investors interested in a fund that holds other CEFs, there are cheaper ETFs to choose from (notably PowerShares CEF Income (PCEF)) and better-performing mutual funds, though the best-performing mutual fund, RiverNorth Core Opportunity (RNCOX), is closed to new investors. And, though performance is not as impressive, Cohen &amp; Steers Closed-End Opportunity (FOF) is a CEF of CEFs, holding a mix of bond and equity funds. Morningstar While the returns of the funds listed above are relatively straightforward, risk measures show an interesting story. Table 2 below lists various risk statistics for the funds and SPY. Standard deviations run the gamut mostly due to leverage. Zweig Total Return (ZTR), for example, has the lowest five-year standard deviation of the bunch, but the fund is unleveraged. Looking at its Sharpe ratio tells us that the fund's relatively low volatility of returns has been associated with low total returns--low risk, but low reward. Upside and downside captures also provide context for volatility of returns, particularly on the downside when investors are loath to see NAVs fall hard and fast. ZTR's capture ratios are remarkably consistent, about 73% on the upside over the latest three- and five-year periods, and 76% and 71% on the downside over the same time periods. Morningstar One of the funds with the highest Sharpe ratio is  John Hancock Premium Dividend Fund (PDT), which has earned a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. This fund is a favorite of ours for its long and successful track record, decades-experienced management team, and reasonable fees. The strategy here focuses on common and preferred stock and has a sizable allocation to utilities and financials. Managers do change allocations based on fundamentals and outlook in equity versus bond markets as well as in U.S. versus non-U.S. markets, but investors should not expect wild swings in broad allocations. Upside and downside capture ratios have been very strong, and the fund's recent fall-off in share price has created a strong buying opportunity. The current 10.5% discount is much wider than historical standards. Its one- and three-year z-statistics are negative 1.8 and negative 1.9, still in a fair value range but reaching the level of undervaluation. Overall, allocation funds can offer investors some respite from rebalancing between equity and fixed-income funds, but a solid understanding of the underlying strategy is imperative. Tortoise Power &amp; Energy Infrastructure (TPZ), for example, is fully invested in energy and related securities. It's not a balanced fund, but an energy fund that balances its holdings between equity and bonds. What's more, utilizing the risk and return measures in Table 2 can highlight historical volatility of returns and prepare investors for choppy waters ahead, but past measures of risk may not fully capture future market risks and portfolio-specific risks. For that, we'd need a crystal ball. Click here for data and commentary on individual closed-end funds. FREE AppDownload
