boston-to-a-T on twitter.comBoylston Street, Boston, 2:49 p.m., April 15th, 2013.It has been two weeks since two homemade bombs exploded near the finish line of the Boston Marathon, killing three people and wounding 260. In those two weeks, we have learned much about what happened and why. We have learned about the innocent victims of the attack, as well as about the deranged young brothers who allegedly carried it out. We have watched a dramatic 24-hour manhunt that paralyzed the city and ended with one brother dead and the other handcuffed to a hospital bed. The story of what happened in Boston has emerged gradually, with new information appearing daily. Early inaccurate reports have been revised, and early mysteries have been resolved. There are still some questions to answer, but after two weeks, the picture is coming into sharper focus. The story below is what we know so far. It is based on eyewitness statements and photos, press conferences, a criminal complaint, and the reporting of more than a dozen media organizations, including this one. (Please see the last page of this story for specific sources and credits.) The Richard FamilyOn Monday, April 15, 2013, an 8-year-old boy named Martin Richard went to the Boston Marathon with his family. It was a beautiful spring day. Around 2:45 p.m. that afternoon, Martin was standing up on a guardrail on Boylston Street to get a better look at the marathon runners nearing the finish line.  Martin loved sports. He was a Red Sox fan, and he played Little League. He had a big black infielder's glove, and he listened carefully to his coaches. Martin's Little League team, the Rangers, had been practicing for their first game of the season, which was the last Saturday in April. Martin would never play in that game. The picture below shows Martin Richard in the last few seconds of his life, standing on the guardrail near the marathon finish line. Martin's father Bill, his mother Denise, and his 7-year-old sister Jane are with him. reddit/MelGibsonDerp Remarkably, this picture also shows the backpack containing the bomb that was about to kill Martin, as well as the man who allegedly planted it. Briefly known as “Suspect 2,” the man in the white baseball hat in the background is 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, an American college student from Cambridge. Dzhokhar has allegedly just placed the backpack near the guardrail and is walking away. Like the Richards, Dzhokhar had arrived at this, his targeted location, at approximately 2:45 p.m. Shortly thereafter, authorities say, he moved to the guardrail and dropped the backpack onto the ground. After walking past the Richards and other spectators, Dzhokhar loitered in front of the Forum restaurant at 755 Boylston Street for about four minutes, looking occasionally at his cell phone and once appearing to take a picture with it. Eventually, at 2:49 p.m., Dzhokhar lifted the phone to his ear.  A few seconds later, down the street, a bomb exploded. That bomb was allegedly made and placed by Dzhokhar's 26-year-old brother, Tamerlan.  Like the one in Dzhokhar's backpack, it was a homemade “improvised explosive device” — a pressure cooker filled with gunpowder, ball bearings, and nails. The bomb was designed to kill and maim people, and it did. It also created a fireball and blast that could be heard up and down Boylston Street. At the sound of the explosion, virtually everyone standing on Boylston Street near Dzhokhar Tsarnaev turned their heads and looked down the street in bewilderment and alarm.  But not Dzhokhar.  Dzhokhar remained calm, as though nothing had happened. After the explosion, amid the confusion, Dzhokhar rapidly began walking west, away from the marathon finish line. The backpack he had placed near the guardrail was still on the ground. Twelve seconds after the first bomb went off, the homemade pressure-cooker bomb inside Dzhokhar's pack exploded.  Shrapnel from the second bomb tore through the Richard family and other people nearby, literally blowing them apart. The bomb killed 8-year-old Martin Richard. It tore off his sister Jane's leg. It put his mother in the hospital with a serious brain injury. It blew off limbs, ripped gashes in dozens of people, and sprayed blood, flesh, and bone all over the sidewalk. The devastation caused by the bombs turned Boylston Street into a war zone. The photos of the blasts and the chaotic and horrifying moments that followed are unforgettable.Vine90.7 RAV FM  YouTube/NekoAngel3Wolf Boston Globe via Getty Facebook In the chaos that followed the blasts, a remarkable thing happened. Despite the risk that other bombs might explode anywhere at any time, policemen, race volunteers, doctors, and spectators immediately descended on the carnage and began helping those who had been crippled and hurt. Firefighters began searching frantically for a rumored third bomb. Runners stopped running to help victims. These and other quick responses saved several people who might otherwise have bled to death. A 27-year-old named Jeff Bauman, for example, had both legs blown off below the knee. A marathon spectator named Carlos Arredondo, who had lost one of his sons in the Iraq war and the other to suicide, was attending the marathon to support a runner honoring his sons. Arredondo tied a cloth tourniquet around one of Bauman's legs and pinched Bauman's bleeding artery closed on the other. Moments later, Arredondo, still wearing his cowboy hat, helped two others wheel Bauman toward a medical tent. AP Photo/Charles Krupa A race volunteer named E.J. Occhiboi, who was volunteering two blocks away from the marathon's finish line, saw a medical tent reserved to treat marathon finishers and sprang into action with the wounded. One bystander who'd been rushed into the tent had a deep, three-inch-wide gash in his leg with a piece of shrapnel sticking out of it. “You could just see ... a chunk of his hamstring was gone,” Occhiboi said. A 17-year-old named Sydney Corcoran had a gash torn in her femoral artery, an injury that you don't survive for long without help. Sydney's mother, Celeste, lost both of her legs below the knee.  Up and down Boylston Street, volunteers, runners, firefighters, policemen, and medical personnel rushed to help the victims of the bombs. This response was one of the first of many inspiring moments that would occur in Boston over the next five days. Bloomberg via Getty Jim Rogash/Getty ImagesREUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi AP Photo/Charles KrupaOver the next several hours, there were frequent rumors and reports of other bombs. Authorities were briefly worried that a third bomb had been placed under the grandstand, and firefighters searched desperately for it. A fire in the JFK library was initially linked to the bombings. Backpacks and other belongings abandoned by fleeing spectators, or just lost in the confusion, had to be searched, for fear that they contained more bombs. As word spread of the horror, relatives and friends of runners and spectators began trying to make contact with their loved ones, desperate to make sure that everything was OK. The cellular networks didn't work, however, so many of these communication attempts failed. In most cases, this brief panic ended as it did for the man and woman below — in joy and relief. In many other cases, however, it didn't. REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi In all, 260 people were wounded by the blasts. Three were killed. Speaking from the White House Monday evening, President Barack Obama vowed that those responsible for the attacks would be found.  Police had no suspects, however. No motive. And no leads.  FREE AppDownload
