Personal details including information about serious illnesses and due dates for pregnant women are selling for a fraction of a penny as companies scramble for data, it has been reported. Corporate competition to collect personal information about consumers is intensifying which is pushing down the price of intimate details, according to an investigation by the Financial Times. Collecting personal data online has become a multibillion-dollar industry but there are fears that it is largely unregulated as companies obtain information through web searches, social networks, purchase histories and public records. Through scouring the internet they collate thousands of details including information about illness, credit scores and even due dates for expecting mothers. Companies then use this information to predict and influence consumer behaviour and target advertising. Basic age, gender and location information sells for $0.0005 per person, or $0.50 (32p) per 1,000 people, according to the figures seen by the FT. The data on those who are considered to be “influential” within their social networks has the higher value of $0.00075, or $0.75 (48p) per 1,000 people. Details of how much a person earns or their shopping history are slightly more valuable again - and each piece sells for $0.001. In total most people’s data is now worth less than a 64p. “You’re not worth much,” said Dave Morgan, who founded a company which pioneered the use of targetted online adverts. As the amount of information available online grows, data brokers seek out even more personal details. One such company, LeadsPlease.com, offers the names and addresses of people suffering from illnesses including cancer, diabetes and clinical depression for just $0.26 – 17p. The information includes the specific medications the patient is taking. Buyers are offered a bulk discount which drops the price to $0.14 if more than 50,001 personal records are purchased. Another company, ALC Data, sells a list of patients with specific ailments sorted by credit score. Insurance groups, mobile phone providers, and energy companies have all bought the data in the last few months, the company’s website data shows. It is claimed that the information has been voluntarily handed over by the patient.  FREE AppDownload
