He was talking about the risks caused by the latest congressional disagreements on fiscal issues. This morning he followed up with a letter to John Boehner, the Speaker of the House of Representative, indicating that “the extraordinary measures we are employing to preserve borrowing capacity would be exhausted in the middle of October.” He thus warned that, if Congress fails to act appropriately, “there is no way of knowing the damage … [for] our economy and financial markets.” Secretary Lew is right. Should Congress stumble into shutting down the government (by failing to pass a continuing resolution by October 1st) or triggering a technical default (by failing to lift the debt ceiling a few weeks later), the U.S. economy would suffer. The damage could be both material and durable. And the economic fallout would be even worse if both occurred. This is not just about the direct negative impact on income and economic activity at a time when America’s recovery remains sluggish, unemployment and poverty are too high, and inequalities continue to rise. It is also about the indirect effects, including the extent to which corporate investment would be undermined by a further loss of confidence in Congressional economic governance, the erosion of America’s standing in the global economy, and fueling the already-high imbalances in the country’s economic policy mix. Yet markets are quite relaxed about all this, and for an unfortunate reason. They have been conditioned to expect headline-grabbing political posturing, extreme rhetoric, and seemingly-endless drama from Capitol Hill. Sadly, markets no longer look to Congress to materially enable the economy to grow; nor do they expect that lawmakers will come together to energize job creation. Instead, it has become a question of whether the Congressional impact is neutral at best … or, worse, creates additional headwinds to economic prosperity. As much as markets have grown accustomed to bizarre economic governance on Capitol Hill, they have also been conditioned to expect that – when push comes to shove – lawmakers manage to find a way to avoid lasting damage. Today’s markets are comforted by two specific beliefs: if there is a government shutdown next week (not probable), it is unlikely to last for more than a very few days at most; and if the mid-October debt ceiling date is reached, Treasury will find a way to buy more time for lawmakers to get their act together. These two beliefs are sensible – even in the face of the louder and ever-more acrimonious blame game playing out in Washington. As dysfunctional as Congress has become, lawmakers are unlikely to seriously derail the economy. Accordingly, when it comes to positioning portfolios, markets are right in treating the current rhetoric as “noise” rather than “signals.” This is not to say that Congress is unable to badly stun markets; it sure can though this is unlikely. Or does it mean that there aren’t other things for markets to worry about; there are quite a few. What it does mean is that neither markets – nor, more importantly, the economy as a whole – should expect Congress to pivot any time soon from manufacturing headwinds to providing helpful tailwinds. And that is really unfortunate. FREE AppDownload
