Congressional Budget OfficeIn the two weeks since a faction of Congress shut the government down and began threatening to cause the country to default, the conversation has changed. First, the Republicans' demand was that the Affordable Care Act, a.k.a. Obamacare, be "defunded" or delayed. Now, the Republican demand is that the government cut spending to rein in the country's debt and deficit. The debt and deficit has not been a topic of national conversation for a while — in part because our deficit has actually been shrinking fast — so this is a good time to review where things stand. The bottom line is this: Here are the facts (See charts below):   So, at some point, our government will have to come together to figure out an intelligent long-term plan to deal with our long-term problem. This plan does NOT, however, need to cut spending or increase revenue immediately. Let's go to the charts... CHART 1: First, here's our debt-to-GDP ratio. As you can see, we currently have a high debt-to-GDP ratio, but not an unprecedented one. We had a higher one after World War 2, and that worked out fine. Congressional Budget Office CHART 2: Here's our annual deficit as a percent of GDP. As you can see, it ballooned during the Bush years and financial crisis, but it is now shrinking again. This year, the deficit is expected to shrink all the way to 4% of GDP, the lowest since 2004. St. Louis Fed, Business Insider CHART 3: Here's the deficit presented as the gap between revenue and expenses. As you can see, the deficit has narrowed considerably, and it is expected to continue to shrink for the next few years. Then, if nothing is done, it will start to grow again. Congressional Budget Office CHART 4: And here's a debt projection. Debt as a percentage of GDP is about to peak, and then it should shrink for several years. After 2016, if we don't have a long-term plan, it will start to grow again. Congressional Budget Office CHART 5: This chart shows the components of projected spending. It makes clear that the future budget busters will be our healthcare and social programs, as well as the interest we will incur on the debt we take on to pay for them. Other spending is expected to shrink as a percentage of GDP, which may actually hurt the country. Congressional Budget Office CHART 6: Lastly, here's the long-term view. If we don't develop a long-term plan to either reduce healthcare spending or raise revenue (or a combination), our debt really will become unsustainable. So we do have a long-term debt and deficit problem. But we don't have a short-term one. Congressional Budget Office   SEE ALSO: Here's Who We Owe That $17 Trillion Of Government Debt To FREE AppDownload
