We went back into the history books to carefully examine which sectors perform the best in the various points along the business cycle. Inventory investment and housing are classic early cycle performers. They tend to give up leadership in mid-cycle, when consumer spending and exports take over in terms of relative growth rates. Capital spending (Machinery &amp; Equipment) and nonresidential investment are classic late cycle sector outperformers. I think we are heading into mid-cycle where consumer spending is going to take the baton from the housing market. This is currently being delayed by the lagged impact of the early year tax bite and the current round of sequestering, but next year we should begin to see the impact of gradually improving job market fundamentals spill into a pickup in consumer spending growth. This would not just be desirable — it would be natural. Exports should also take on a leadership role as the recession in Europe ebbs and Chinese growth stabilizes. The cyclical outlook in Japan is also constructive as the monetary and fiscal stimulus has to fully percolate but there is already evidence that the two-decade experience with deflation is drawing to a close. The next chapter would then involve capital spending and plant expansion, and capacity utilization rates and an increasingly obsolete private sector capital stock will trigger accelerating growth in business spending, likely by 2015 or perhaps even earlier. Profit growth is slowing and normally that would be an impediment, but there is ample cash on balance sheets and what businesses need is a less clouded policy outlook, which hopefully will be resolved in the coming year as we get a new Fed leader, greater clarity on monetary policy and some fiscal resolution ahead of or following the mid-term elections. That may be nothing but a hope and prayer, but more fundamentally, productivity growth has stagnated and the best way the corporate sector can reverse the eroding trend and protect margins at the same time will be to move more aggressively to upgrade their operations and facilities — we are coming off the weakest five-year period in the past six decades with regards to growth in capital formation. Perhaps the parting of the clouds in the euro area will serve to be the shot-in-the-arm that companies need to make a capital commitment to the real economy. All that said, I really don’t want to obscure the main point here, or delve too far into the future on that capex call. For the here and now and immediate future, no, I am not worried about the housing revival peaking out. There is no evidence that when this happens, the economy suddenly rolls over and plays dead. Quite the opposite. A peaking in the housing market right now would be perfectly normal — normal defined as the historical norm. Just look at the evidence: So there are two takeaways here. If we did peak this time at one million units back in March, it will have been the lowest peak ever (back to the 1950s) and by about half. Second, as you can see from the lags, the next recession does not begin, on average, for nearly three years after the peak in housing starts. There is more to life — and the economy — than this 3% chunk of GDP. Housing always peaks early in the business cycle. The lag between the peak in housing and the peak in the economic cycle is typically 40 months, not three months. And if the peak was one million in housing starts last March, it will be the first time that has ever happened (and I do understand that the world is different post-crisis as it relates to credit availability and demographics). The two lowest peaks ever in U.S. housing starts were 1.8 million units in the mid-1960s and the late 1990s. So it is unclear that one million was the peak this time around, and higher mortgage rates have to be viewed in the context of improving job market conditions. And even if one million was the peak, the time lag between the peak in the residential sector and the next recession is just far too long for me to fret about right now. Inflation, the yield curve, the unemployment rate and housing all scream early-cycle to me, though the stock market, the boom/bust ratio, productivity and capacity utilization rates in industry suggest mid to late cycle. So I do acknowledge that it is not 100% clear as to where we are in the business cycle right now — but the yield curve tends to win out and is so steep that it would be bizarre to be talking about the expansion being long in the tooth at the current time (though the equity market looks fully priced to say the least). There is also tremendous angst following the 13.4% slide in new home sales for July (data out on Friday). The bottom line is that about the only piece of data out there that is more notoriously volatile is the monthly durable goods orders report (the numbers just came out for July and were quite a bit softer than expected but did come off significant strength during the Spring) — in fact, no fewer than 10 times in the past 10 years have we seen a month that saw new home sales dive doubledigits — consider it an annual event. Now I am not downplaying the recent softening in the housing market here — but again, like housing starts, sales tend to peak in the early part of the cycle — and generally four years before the expansion dies. If you thought that the last cycle was going to be aborted, for example, after home sales peaked in July 2005 (again, in response to a 130bp backup in mortgage rates from the lows), you would have missed out on another 2½ years of positive cyclical momentum (and a good two years before the most optimal time to re-extend duration). In fact, while we seem to be in the mid-cycle segment of the economic cycle, sector rotation within the equity market suggests we are later in the investment cycle. What we did was assess relative sector performance across the market in up-phases — what leads and lags in the first 20% of the equity bull market (early), next 20% (early-mid), the next 20% (mid), the next 20% (late-mid) and the final 20% (late). As you can see from the table below, late-cycle tends to see Tech, Materials, Industrials and Consumer Discretionary near the top, and the rate sensitive Telecom, Utilities and Financials lagging behind — which is almost precisely the backdrop of the action we have seen over the past month. It would not be that unusual to have the market in the later stage, and the broad economy in the mid stage, since it is the S&amp;P 500 that leads GDP, not the other the way around. Gluskin Sheff This article originally appeared at Gluskin Sheff.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
