From India and Turkey to Mexico and Brazil, stocks, bonds and currencies surged in response to the Fed’s announcement that it would stay the course with its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases until it saw more evidence of a robust U.S. recovery. Brazil’s main equity index rose 2.64 percent following the Fed’s surprising September 16 decision. In Asia, Philippine stocks rose 2.45 percent, and in India, 2.73 percent. It was an entirely unexpected reprieve for emerging markets. Since May, when the Federal Reserve first suggested that it could begin “tapering” as early as September the asset purchases that had sent a flood of cheap money to the developing world, selling pressure has been relentless. And it’s not going to go away entirely: The FOMC made clear at its September meeting that it still plans to start tapering when economic data in the U.S. merits such a move. So emerging markets haven’t dodged that particular bullet – but simply enjoyed a postponement of its impact. “We are entering a new monetary environment – an environment very reminiscent of the one that existed prior to the 2008 financial crisis and one in which liquidity becomes a precious commodity,” Credit Suisse Head of Emerging Market Strategy Adrian Zuercher wrote in a note earlier this month entitled “Rumble in the EM Jungle.” “Competition to attract the scarcer liquidity will therefore intensify. This poses major challenges, particularly for those countries and regions that have profited more than average in recent years from the low-interest-rate environment and are more heavily dependent on foreign capital inflows due to their economic situation.” Still, the temporary lull may have created equity-buying opportunities in some key emerging market economies. “The dovish stance of the Fed should be positive in the near term for emerging market assets,” Credit Suisse strategists wrote in a September 19 note entitled “Latin America: Positioning After the Rally.” This bullish outlook is in line with Zuercher’s September 11 analysis, published ahead of the FOMC meeting, which said that said Fed-fueled volatility could motivate contrarian investors to buy cheap emerging market assets backed by strong economic fundamentals. In particular, he said, investors may look at opportunities in countries whose fortunes rise or fall with global trade. Investors shied away from markets such as China and Korea, for example, when demand from the U.S. and Europe was weak, preferring to focus on fast-growing domestic economies such as the Philippines and Indonesia. That may be about to change. As such, Credit Suisse is especially optimistic about Asian equities, where it maintains an overweight position, favoring export-driven economies that would benefit from a growing U.S. demand. Top of the list is China, which remains the bank’s “preferred” Asian market, and where Credit Suisse believes that a recent economic slowdown has come to an end.  Zuercher noted that while Chinese growth should continue to be slower than the breakneck pace of the last few years, that growth is unlikely to be as weak as investors feared. The exporting powerhouse should benefit from the improving economies of the U.S. and Europe in the back half of the year, and domestic China economic data is already starting to reflect an upswing. Preliminary surveys show that manufacturing activity reached its highest level in six months in September, and factory output and fixed asset investment have increased, too. Those trends, combined with repeated commitments by top Chinese officials to intervene with stimulus if economic growth slips below 7.5 percent, have helped boost the country’s stock market in recent weeks. Zuercher noted that “although momentum in earnings estimates was flat last month, net downward revisions appear to have bottomed recently.” China’s Shanghai Stock Index is up more than 13 percent for the year, but Chinese equities remain some of the cheapest on a Credit Suisse scorecard that tracks the valuations of key emerging market stocks. South Korea is another Credit Suisse favorite, and the bank upped its overweighting of South Korean equities earlier this month. “That market, of course, is not immune to monetary policy normalization in the U.S., but should continue to deliver a superior performance,” Zuercher wrote. The Korean economy grew at a faster-than-expected 2.3 percent in the second quarter compared to the same period last year. At the same time, inflation has remained low, giving the Bank of Korea breathing room to keep interest rates relatively low at 2.5 percent, where they have been since the bank cut rates by a quarter of a percentage point in May. Policymakers also implemented a $15 billion fiscal stimulus in April to boost growth. The recent expectation-beating data hasn’t yet impacted Korean equities, either: Credit Suisse pointed out that forward-looking price-earnings ratios (P/E) on Korean equities are 15 percent below those of other Asian economies. Turkey, one of the economies hit hardest by the emerging market selloff, is also looking more attractive. For one thing, an agreement between the U.S. and Russia has sidelined for now the possibility of a U.S.-led bombing campaign in neighboring Syria. Analysts also noted in a September 18 report entitled “Upgrading Turkey: Risks Removed” that inflation finally seems to be slowing, having fallen from 8.9 percent year over year in July to 8.2 percent in August. Turkey’s rising sovereign debt yields may make the bonds more attractive as a carry trade, analysts said, which could in turn help staunch recent outflows of investor cash. Credit Suisse estimates the country’s 2013 GDP growth will be 4.2 percent, more than double the 2 percent output it anticipates in former BRIC superstar Brazil. While the Fed’s decision last week to continue easing at current levels caught investors by surprise, the FOMC nevertheless made it clear that it’s still only a matter of time before the central bank starts to scale back its bond purchases. So an across-the-board focus on emerging market economies is still not the best move. But there are still good opportunities out there. FREE AppDownload
