Yahoo Finance The market got clobbered yesterday, and so did Apple. Apple's stock closed at $419.85 — its lowest closing price since its slide from $700 began last September. Apple is now down 40% from its peak. And anyone who has bought Apple in the past year and held it has lost money on it. What's going on with Apple's stock?  How low could it go?  When might we see a bottom? On the first question, there are several things going on with Apple's stock. I'll discuss them in detail below. On the second question, the answer is, "probably not much lower ... unless the business takes another turn for the worse." And, unfortunately, it is quite possible that the business could take another turn for the worse, if not several more turns. (Companies don't go from spectacularly healthy to moribund overnight — the process usually takes years.) On the third question — when might we see a bottom — there's a chance that we could hit at least a temporary one soon. For the last couple of months, Wall Street has been dreading Apple's first quarter earnings report. The prevailing theory is that Apple will not only report a lousy quarter, but will also offer guidance for the second calendar quarter that is well below Wall Street's current estimates. The hope among some Wall Street bulls is that this double-whammy of bad news will reduce expectations for the company just as anticipation begins to build about the summer and fall launch of several new products. This combination, the theory goes, could put in a bottom for the stock. Of course, if Apple's swoon over the past six months is the start of a long-term decline, this respite will likely be short-lived. Some of the issues plaguing Apple's stock are fundamental, having to do with changes in Apple's business. ApplePretty. But expensive.Others are related to sentiment and changes in Apple's shareholder base ("momentum" and "growth" investors are continuing to dump the stock, on the theory that Apple's growth days are over. And as they dump it, the only folks willing to buy it are "value" investors who care deeply about price). Here are some of the things investors are concerned about: All of these factors are weighing on Apple's stock. But here's the good news: The stock is now cheap. Apple is now trading at 10X trailing earnings per share. Apple could certainly get "cheaper," especially if its earnings continue to decline. The stocks of companies that are truly troubled, like Dell, BlackBerry, and HP, often trade at mid-single-digit PEs. (See: "How Low Could Apple Go?") But for now, at least, Apple is still healthy, so if Apple ever gets to, say, 8X earnings, it will be screamingly cheap. At 10X earnings, Apple is just cheap — cheaper, for example, than the stock market as a whole. And Apple also has nearly $150 billion in cash. What will Apple's stock do from here? No one knows, so don't get fooled into thinking that there's some guru out there who can tell you definitively. Apple may release some exciting new products later this year that will get investors buzzing and cause them to pay, say, 14X for Apple's earnings instead of 10X. And that will produce a nice jump in the stock. Or Apple may be in the early innings of a long secular decline in which it eventually becomes the equivalent of Dell (or, worse, Nokia. Or Digital Equipment Corporation). That depressing future is entirely possible, so don't delude yourself into thinking that it isn't. One thing we can say, though, is that at 10X earnings Apple looks cheap and is still in robust financial health. That means that even modest unexpected good news may drive the stock significantly higher. (I don't buy individual stocks these days, but if Apple were to double its dividend to a 4%+ yield, I might find that irresistible. Even if Apple is in the midst of a secular decline, it will likely be able to keep paying those dividends for a good long time.) SEE ALSO: How Low Could Apple Go? FREE AppDownload
