Central bank policies have distorted markets to such a degree that investors are devoid of any buy-and-hold asset classes, according to James Montier. But according to Richard Bernstein, the flood of liquidity unleashed through quantitative easing (QE) now offers investors compelling opportunities. Montier is a member of the asset allocation team at Boston-based Grantham Mayo van Otterloo. Bernstein is the chief executive officer of New York-based Richard Bernstein Advisors. The two squared off in a panel discussion at the 2013 Morningstar Investment Conference in Chicago last week. “This is the hardest time to be an asset allocator,” Montier said. “Normally, you find that safe-haven assets are expensive and riskier assets are cheap – and vice versa. But today, largely because of the central banks around the world, we’ve got a very distorted opportunity set, such that there is nothing you can buy and hold.” Bernstein agreed that QE has upset traditional valuation dynamics, but he said investors still have choices. “There are pockets that are very, very attractive,” he said. “People are generally unaware of those pockets.” Let’s look at the key assumptions around Federal Reserve policies that led these two investors to such divergent views of the markets. Fed policy and its impact on the markets Low inflation and low interest rates have driven most asset classes to unacceptably high valuations, Montier said. Montier explained that GMO uses a valuation methodology based on reversion to the mean. It looks at metrics such as margins, earnings and sales growth, then analyzes what the impact will be on prices if those values revert to their long-term averages over a seven-year time horizon. Those forecasts are published on GMO’s website. As of the end of May, stocks – with the exception of emerging markets, which I will come back to in a moment – offered real (inflation-adjusted) returns ranging from -3.1% to 3.4%. Bonds were even worse – only emerging debt had a positive expected return. The U.S. economy remains “miles away” from the Fed’s preconditions for ending its QE measures, Montier said. The Fed explicitly stated that unemployment must fall below 6.5% and inflation must rise to 2.5% before it will tighten. Right now, with 7.6% unemployment and 1% inflation (measured, as the Fed does, by the personal consumption expenditure (PCE)), Montier said it is unlikely the Fed will tighten any time soon. Since the end of 2012, Montier said the market has made a “huge” shift, from pricing in 20-plus years of financial repression to assuming that repression will end in the next decade. That has resulted in a steepening of the real-interest-rate term structure. Inflation is unlikely to accelerate, Montier said. People who fear that the Fed’s “printing money” will lead to inflation don’t understand how QE works, he said. The Fed is buying long-term bonds and issuing massive amounts of short-term debt, according to Montier, which wind up in bank reserves. “There is no printing of money per se,” he said. The velocity of money has collapsed, he said, and neither demand-pull or cost-push mechanisms are likely to revive it and create inflation. Too much slack in the economy – such as high unemployment – makes demand-pull inflation unlikely. Commodity prices aren’t increasing, he said, so cost-push inflation won’t unfold.  Montier said in the 1970s, America’s highly unionized workforce drove higher commodity prices into higher wages and prices. Unions play a smaller role in today’s workforce, virtually eliminating that threat, according to Montier. Meanwhile, Bernstein agreed with Montier about the likely direction of Fed policy but said that investors don’t have to be overly conservative. Fed policies have created a distaste for certain asset classes among investors, Bernstein said, based on a mistaken belief that they won’t do well over the next five or seven years. He said the key is to find asset classes rejected by other investors, where investors can be the equivalent of a “single banker in a town of 1,000 borrowers.” Read the rest at AdvisorPerspectives.com &gt; This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
