Since almost everyone by now understands that our most recent financial crisis was brought on by poor lending practices at Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Big Banks, I thought in this third article in my banking series for Business Insider that I would show how those poor lending practices played out within the U.S. banking industry during the crisis. Exhibit 1 tracks eight years (32 quarters) of the most important loan accounting performance indicators, allowing any layperson to hopefully gain a better understanding of what has taken place over the last several years. Again, as I have mentioned in my previous articles, all of my information and analysis can be confirmed and duplicated.  My data source is the FDIC banking data base open to the public worldwide. Jim Boswell                     If you really want to track and understand U.S. Banking loan performance throughout our most recent crisis period, Exhibit 1 is about as good as it gets.  If you can understand Exhibit 1, you can pretty much understand everything that has taken place in the area of problem loan processing by the U.S. banks since our latest crisis began.  You will also understand better where that processing stands today.  Now here are several key things that you should take away as you study the Exhibit. Now with that as a basic 101 loan accounting lesson, here is what you can glean from the above Exhibit: What you cannot see from Exhibit 1 is that the $292 Billion of current non-performing assets represents 3.85% of the current total amount of U.S. Banking loan assets ($7.6 Trillion).  If for some reason this number does not seem high, don’t forget that the banks have “already written off” $691 Billion and thus another 8.36% of their loans (i.e., using the same current loan asset number plus the amount written off as the denominator in the equation). Okay, so what does all of this really mean or what are you trying to tell us, Jim?  Well, from my professional opinion, humble or not, I say the accounting for the latest banking crisis is essentially over.  And even though the amount of non-performing assets may still seem high ($292 Billion, 3.85% of total banking loans) and still well above pre-crisis levels, I believe the $167 Billion of loan loss allowances already recognized should be sufficient to cover the actual losses associated with those non-performing assets (especially now that housing prices have stabilized and actually begun to raise again). In ending, I think it is worth mentioning that not all banks are created equal—nor is their management team.  What I have presented today is a composite view of loan performance for the entire U.S. banking industry.  Using the FDIC’s data base one can perform the same analysis on each and every one--large or small--of the more than 7,000 operating banks in the United States. Next week, I intend to provide Business Insider a more detailed breakdown of the above analysis, which will show how the loan performance differed during our crisis between (1) the Big Four banks (i.e., Bank of America, JPMorgan/Chase,  Citigroup, and Wells Fargo—all with more than $1 Trillion in assets; (2) the next tier of Thirteen Banks with more than $100 Billion and less than $1 Trillion in assets; and (3) the rest of the 7,000 plus operating banks in the United States. As I just mentioned, loan performance varied between bank to bank, and I think the reader will find next weeks’ comparative analysis rather interesting. This article originally appeared at Quanta Analytics.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
