Nike Nike shares are surging on stronger-than-expected third quarter earnings. The company reported Q3 earnings of $0.86 per share, above consensus estimates for EPS of $0.78. Revenues were also slightly better than expected in Q3 at $6.97 billion, versus the $6.97 billion consensus estimate. Global futures orders after currency adjustments were up 10% in Q3. Analysts were looking for a 7.7% increase. North American futures orders rose 12%, beating the consensus 10.4% estimate. Likewise, China futures orders ex-currency were up 2%, beating estimates for a 0.5% advance. Right now, shares are up around 6% in after-hours trading. Nike was added to the Dow Jones Industrial Average last Friday after the closing bell. Now, the company's earnings release has taken the banner of unofficial kick-off to earnings season from aluminum giant Alcoa. Below is the full text from the release. ------------------------------------------------ BEAVERTON, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- NIKE, Inc. (NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2014 first quarter ended August 31, 2013. Strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands propelled revenue growth, and diluted earnings per share grew faster than revenue due to gross margin expansion, SG&amp;A leverage, a lower tax rate and a lower average share count. “We had a great first quarter driven by our unrelenting commitment to delivering innovative products and services to athletes around the world,” said Mark Parker, President and CEO of NIKE, Inc. “Our powerful portfolio of businesses combined with unmatched leadership and resources allows us to capitalize on opportunities that drive long-term value for our shareholders. I am more excited than ever about our potential to continue to innovate with purpose, and fuel NIKE’s growth.”* First Quarter Continuing Operations Income Statement Review Starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, the Company changed the reporting structure for what was historically identified as Other Businesses. Hurley and NIKE Golf have been included in the overall financial results for the NIKE Brand and for individual geographies, reflecting the operational integration of these businesses into the NIKE Brand category offense. Converse will now be reported as a separate segment, reflecting the ongoing operation of this brand as a stand-alone business. August 31, 2013 Balance Sheet Review for Continuing Operations Share Repurchases During the first quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 8.4 million shares for approximately $526 million as part of the four-year, $8 billion program approved by the Board of Directors in September 2012. As of the end of the first quarter, a total of 23.7 million shares had been repurchased under this program at a cost of approximately $1.3 billion. Futures Orders As of the end of the quarter, worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from September 2013 through January 2014 were 8 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 10 percent.* Conference Call NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on September 26, 2013, to review first quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at http://investors.nikeinc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, October 3, 2013. About NIKE, Inc. NIKE, Inc., based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world’s leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE, Inc. subsidiaries include Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories, and Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes surf and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories. For more information, NIKE’s earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at http://investors.nikeinc.com and individuals can follow @Nike. * The marked paragraphs contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by Nike with the S.E.C., including Forms 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K. Some forward-looking statements in this release concern changes in futures orders that are not necessarily indicative of changes in total revenues for subsequent periods due to the mix of futures and “at once” orders, exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, discounts and returns, which may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, and because a significant portion of the business does not report futures orders. FREE AppDownload
