Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen Lovekin/StaffHedge fund titan Bill Ackman, who has been in the spotlight for his Herbalife short, is answering investor questions live at the Harbor Investment Conference at JPMorgan Chase right now.  Ackman's $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management is shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife.  Ackman believes the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products is a "pyramid scheme" and has a price target of $0. We're on site and live blogging Pershing Square Capital Management's responses.  Refresh this page for updates. Before the Q&amp;A, Ackman auctioned off lunches with himself and the others who presented today.  Blue Mountain's Andrew Feldstein lunch brought in $30,000. Now we're gettng to the Q&amp;A, but first Ackman is going to talk about his Herbalife short. "We short very few stocks at Pershing Square," he said saying that shorting has certain inherent risks.  The biggest risk is no company likes for you to have a view that the stock is going to go down, the activist investor said.  "After 18 months of work and assistance of some of the top law firms in the country we've included that it's a pyramid scheme." He says Herbalife has hidden behind a product and that it's a company that hurts poor people.   The biggest risk Pershing Square took is whether or not they could get enough of a spotlight the FTC, the SEC or the Attorneys Generals around the country? "I was quite confident we attracted the world's attention." "Carl Icahn thank you very much and Dan Loeb thank you as well."  He said this made it an interesting question... "Am I right?"  The catalyst was publicity, he said. He says he has his "friends in the business" to thank for that.  Ackman put 284 questions out to Herbalife last week.  "Every question we asked a company that's not a pyramid scheme could answer in 20 minutes."  Now it's time for questions. He says he's willing to answer anything even Herbalife questions. "I'm obsessed with Herbalife," he said.  The Harbor Investment Conference is an annual event that brings together some of the industry's top investors to share trade ideas and raise money for the Boys &amp; Girls' Harbor.  Ackman and Mark Axelowitz, managing director from UBS Private Wealth Management, co-host the conference.   Produced by Daniel Goodman  FREE AppDownload
