I look forward to seeing what it comes up with. Two hunches, though: First, the CEP will be a strong advocate of sharply higher tax rates given that its director is Emmanuel Saez, an economist whowouldn’t mind seeing a top tax rate of over 70%. Second — and again this is just a guess — the CEP will assume that the last few decades have been terrible ones for the US middle-class. Nothing but economic stagnation and exploding inequality. It’s a claim President Obama has repeatedly made. Except it is simply not true. A new analysis from Scott Winship provides a needed reality check. A review of that data suggests the following, according to Winship click here for a Q&amp;A with the scholar): The story over the long-run is one of strong improvement in living standards, driven in part by greater work and higher wages among women, but in part by continued gains in male earnings, declining family size, lower taxes, and more federal and employer benefits. While the range of estimates is wide, a reasonable conclusion from the totality of the evidence is that poor and middle class households are at least 30 percent richer today than their counterparts from 35 years ago. And that, really, is a conservative estimate. More likely the true number, at least for the middle-class, is somewhere between 40% and 50%. So while income inequality has risen over the period,middle-class stagnation has not been a consequence. And along those lines, I hope the CEP considers that there is a strong argument the increase in high-end inequality is likely the result of market forces mostly, rather than corporate greed or crony capitalism. Still, moving forward since the start of the Great Recession, there may be reason to worry that income inequality and middle-class stagnation will become problems thanks to accelerating automation, as economist Tyler Cowen suggests in his book, “Average is Over.” And solid research on economic mobility would also be welcome. Oh, about the lovely CEP logo, which is “based on the mathematics of the Golden Ratio and the Fibonacci spiral. It is composed of forms that grow yet remain proportionally equal.” www.aei Again, aiming for perfectly shared prosperity — which, unlike perfectly shared misery, is impossible — is not how the West got rich and not why the income of Americans over the past two centuries went from $2,000 per person to $50,000 in real terms. As economist Deirdre McCloskey has put it, the West became a business-admiring civilization and that changed everything: What changed were habits of the lip. It’s not a “rise of the bourgeoisie,” but a rise in other people’s opinion of the bourgeoisie that makes for economic growth — as it is now doing in China and India. When people treat the marketeers and inventors as having some dignity and liberty, innovation takes hold. It was so to speak a shift in “constitutional political economy,” as James Buchanan puts the point. People agreed on the meta-rule of letting the economy go where it will. This contrasted with the earlier mentality, still admired on the left, that treats each act of innovation as an occasion to go looking for its victims. Victims there were, but they were greatly outnumbered by winners. It was ideas, not matter, that made the winners, and brought our ancestors from $3 to over $100 a day. I hope some of that analysis makes its way into CEP research, too. This article originally appeared at The American Enterprise Institute Blog.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
