REUTERS/Greg BakerU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke waves towards members of the Chinese delegation as he is introduced at the opening of the Strategic Economic Dialogue in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing December 14, 2006. "I don't think the Fed can get interest rates up very much, because the economy is weak, inflation rates are low," said Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke in his semi-annual testimony on monetary policy before the House Financial Services Committee this month. "If we were to tighten policy, the economy would tank." Deutsche Bank economists Peter Hooper, Torsten Slok, and Matthew Luzzetti take issue with that claim in a new report: Often we meet we meet investors investors who argue along these lines: "The only reason why markets are rallying is because the Fed is printing money, and once the Fed stops printing money, financial markets will crash like a house of cards." This is a complete misunderstanding of what is going on. What many investors forget is that we have over the past five years witnessed a dramatic improvement in the housing market, consumer balance sheets, and banking sector balance sheets. This healing and correction of imbalances has come so far that the economy is now able to stand on its own legs and generate sustainable growth going forward. This is exactly the backdrop for why tapering can begin soon and the Fed can eventually begin hiking rates. Hooper, Slok, and Luzzetti use the following series of charts to show how imbalances leading to the 2008 financial crisis have slowly been corrected in the past few years. "The indicators in this chart book show that the correction of these imbalances was fastest in housing, followed by banking, consumers, and the labor market," says the Deutsche Bank team. "The slower healing in the labor market is obviously important for when the Fed will hike rates but a virtuous cycle is currently playing out with higher home prices supporting consumers and banks, which again supports the housing market, and this virtuous cycle will continue to support employment growth going forward." Let's go to the charts. Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
