The bank reported earnings per share of 20 cents.  Third quarter revenue came in at $21.7 billion.   Net income for Q3 came in at $2.5 billion.  On average, analysts expected BofA to report adjusted earnings per share of 20 cents, according to Bloomberg. Sales were expected to come in at $21.945 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income adjusted was expected to be $2.672 billion.  Shares of BofA were last trading up more than 1.5% in the pre-market.  Here's an excerpt from the release:  Bank of America Reports Third-Quarter 2013 Net Income of $2.5 Billion,or $0.20 per Diluted Share, on Revenue of $21.7 Billion Effects of Previously Announced Items Relative to the year-ago quarter, the results for the third quarter of 2013 were driven by reduced negative credit valuation adjustments on the company's credit spreads and increases in equity investment income, net interest income and investment and brokerage income. The company also benefited from improved credit quality and lower expenses. These factors were partially offset by lower mortgage banking income and the negative impact from remeasuring certain deferred tax assets due to the U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction enacted in July 2013. CHARLOTTE — Bank of America Corporation today reported net income rose to $2.5 billion in the third quarter of 2013 from $340 million in the year-ago quarter. Earnings per diluted share increased to $0.20 from $0.00 in the third quarter of 2012. For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, net income increased to $8.0 billion from $3.5 billion in the same period a year ago. "This quarter, we saw good loan growth, improved credit quality and record deposit balances. Our customers and clients continue to do more business with us," said Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan. "The economy and business climate will improve even more quickly as conditions normalize, and we are well positioned to benefit from that." "We continued to make good progress on our expense initiatives, and we further strengthened our capital and leverage ratios," said Chief Financial Officer Bruce Thompson. Refresh this page for updates.  FREE AppDownload
