CNBC screenshotThe "Sheriff of Wall Street" United States Attorney Preet Bharara sat down with "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer at the CNBC/Institutional Investor conference.  His keynote was one of the highlights of the conference last year.   "If your CEO gets contacted by our office, you might want to check if you have a good lawyer," Bharara begins. Bharara says that he's not going to talk about any particular case during this panel.   There are a lot of "arm chair lawyers and arm chair prosecutors" who think they know about the statute of limitations, but they're often wrong, he says.  "People shouldn't be waiting for time to run out. That's not a good way to behave. I actually don't wear a watch, for the record." On whether banks are "too big to jail," he says he doesn't think anyone is too big to jail. He says, though, it may be the case that you have a gigantic institution, whether you make toys or are a financial institution, if that's an institution that will go out of business and hundreds of thousands of employees will lose their jobs and shareholders will lose money that's something that has to be taken into account.   People need to understand there are appropriate circumstances where institutions are responsible because they've allowed maleficence to occur, he says.  Cramer points out that JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon pointed out that he was surprised some execs weren't prosecuted. He asks if bank execs should bank execs be fearful?  "People should be afraid that bad acts they've committed in the past should catch up with them," Bharara says.  Cramer is asking him about technology and forms of communication Wall Streeters use that could be potentially  be used to share illegal tips.  Bharara admits he doesn't know what Snapchat is.   "No one should feel safe because they're using a particular method."  The CNBC host asked Bharara if he has thought about a higher office — Governor of New York of U.S. Attorney General. "I like my job," Bharara said. "I'm doing this job." FREE AppDownload
