With Bernanke having appeared on Capitol Hill this week, there's been a fresh wave of talk about when the Fed would "exit" its aggressive easing, and what impact that would have on stocks. But we like to remind people that while people often strongly associate the really with the Fed's generosity, the relationship between market performance and real-world economics is very strong. As we just posted, there is a strong correlation between stocks and initial jobless claims. In a note out yesterday, UBS floor guy Art Cashin drew attention to a recent note from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus (one that we actually liked as well) that shows the sweet relationship between stocks and earnings. Again: It's all about the fundamentals. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Move Over Mr. Gillette, This Guy's Got A Sharper Razor – As you probably recall from sixth grade Epistemology class, Occam's Razor was the concept, and or, a process of keeping philosophic and other proofs as basic and simple as possible.  As you further recall, it was based on a principle set down by William of Ockham around 1340 (actually similar concepts showed up among various philosophers going all the way back to Aristotle and beyond).As your particular version of Sister Herman Joseph probably taught you, Occam's Razor had you shave away superfluous and erroneous aspects of a proof until you were down to its simple necessary roots.We were reminded of Occam's Razor Wednesday night by a paragraph in a note by our friend, the always insightful, Dan Greenhaus, Chief Global Strategist over at BTIG.  After our having spent days, even weeks watching TV pundits call the stock market a creature of the Fed or currency markets and all manner of things, Dan's note struck a chord.  Here's what Dan wrote: While there is no doubt that Fed support has been a crucial, crucial support mechanism for higher equity values and economic improvement since first being utilized in late 2008, one cannot ignore (nor, admittedly, separate out) the improvement in the earnings environment. Our good friend Larry Kudlow is fond of saying that profits are the mother’s milk of stock prices. In that regard, the S&amp;P 500’s four quarter trailing EPS is currently $98 or so. At the end of March 2009, that number was $43 or so meaning EPS has more than doubled, 129% higher today than at the equity market’s bottom. Guess how much the S&amp;P 500 is up since then? 128%. We suppose this isn’t all about the Federal Reserve after all. Earnings up 129%.  S&amp;P up 128%.  Simple.  Neat.  Even elegant.  We think Occam would have smiled.  We know we certainly did. FREE AppDownload
