Wikimedia CommonsAxial tilt."Risk events are set to pick up dramatically, threatening the summer lull," says Société Générale head of rates and forex strategy Vincent Chaigneau. First of all, it's jobs week in America. The July U.S. jobs report comes out on Friday, and the numbers will be considered carefully as the Federal Reserve decides the course of its currently ultra-easy monetary policy. Furthermore, new U.S. housing data may begin to give us a sense of whether rising mortgage rates are affecting homebuyer behavior. Similar insights will be revealed through the July auto sales figures. Speaking of monetary policy, three of the world's most important central banks will hold interest rate meetings this week. All of this comes as every major economy around the world will publish its crucial manufacturing PMI reports. Is Europe still getting better? Is China still getting worse? Meanwhile, we're still in the middle of Q2 earnings season. Pfizer, ExxonMobil, Proctor &amp; Gamble, and Berkshire Hathaway are just a few of the companies announcing this week. Also, the U.S. will be publishing revisions to every GDP report since 1929. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Despite the sea of uncertainty on the horizon, J.P. Morgan's Tom Lee is bullish. "With both U.S. and Europe expected to see better growth in [the second half of 2013], we believe the Street will be in a position to raise 2014E EPS," said Lee about stock market profits. "We are raising 2014E EPS to $120 (vs $117) and also raising our YE 2013E S&amp;P 500 Target to 1775 (up 3.5% vs prior 1715)." Among other things, Lee is encouraged by the pent-up demand he sees in the U.S. "As for the U.S. and to a lesser extent for Europe, this is more than “easing financial conditions” but a story of pent-up demand," he said. "[I]nvestment/durables spending in the U.S. remains at 60-year lows. And at a time when the age of capital- stock is near record highs. This is a formula, in our view, for obsolescence asserting itself in the form of an eventual sharp rise in spending." We asked Matthew Cheslock, Equity Trader at Virtu Financial, what we should think about when it comes to China, Europe, and the U.S. Watch the video here: FREE AppDownload
