REUTERS/Laurent Dubrule Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel (L) and Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron talk during a European Union leaders summit in Brussels June 28, 2013. More than 10,000 Britons are claiming unemployment benefit in Germany because they are not “hassled” in to finding work there. Ex-pats receive up to £23,318 a year from the German taxpayer at a time when many in the UK complain of EU “benefit tourists” heading here to drain public funds. Those Britons claiming in Germany either moved there to claim handouts or had been working there but lost their jobs. Under EU rules, countries must provide state handouts to EU citizens if their own member state has the equivalent benefit back home – a policy both Britain and Germany object to. The claimant figure makes up around a tenth of the British expat population in Germany and many have praised the hassle free system in contrast to “patronising” officials in the UK who make people look for work. One, a 28-year-old computer science graduate from Birmingham, worked for an IT firm in Berlin for two months before losing his job and claimed €560 (3474) a month for six months. He said: “It's quite amazing that you can live here as a foreigner and claim benefits. “In Britain I had to put up with patronising officials, some of whom tried to get me to accept a job as a cleaner despite my degree.” He added: “I much preferred the German system because once you get on it, the money comes in regularly and there is no more hassle.” Matt Johnson, 25, a musician from London, and his girlfriend use handouts to boost their income in Berlin. "It sounds wrong to get on the dole for that reason but our generation has had it much worse than that of our parents," Mr Johnson said. The UK claims it is funding up to 600,000 unemployed EU migrants here but that figure is disputed by the European Commission. There also concerns the picture could worsen when Romania and Bulgaria formally join the EU next year. This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
