The Consumer Price Index is the most familiar gauge of inflation in the US. The data for the non-seasonally adjusted series stretches back a century to January 1913. But the news of late is about a relative newcomer to the inflation metrics of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the Chained CPI for Urban Consumers (C-CPI-U). The BLS has a Frequently Asked Questions page on the Chained CPI that's been around for a while. At present the page footer says "Last Modified Date: April 6, 2005". The reason the Chained CPI is now a hot topic in the news is that it's being proposed as the method for determining cost of living adjustments for Social Security. Here are some typical examples of topic in the popular press: I'll have more to write about Chained CPI in future commentaries and updates. But for openers, I spent some time this afternoon modifying a column chart I've been updating monthly for the past several years. The chart illustrates the overall change in inflation for CPI, Core CPI, and the eight top-level components of CPI since the turn of the century (more here). I also include energy, which is a collection of subcomponents, and College Tuition and Fees, a subcomponent of one of the top eight. The BLS has published the data for these metrics for chained CPI from December 1999. The one missing element is College Tuition and Fees. The chart below pairs the two versions of each component showing the total change since December 1999. We can thus have a more educated sense of how the Chained CPI and conventional CPI differ from one another.     I have more on this topic in future posts. Meanwhile, here is a bottom line comparison: Since December of 2000, the average year-over-year inflation calculated monthly based on the conventional CPI has been 2.43%. For equivalent calculation for the Chained CPI it is 2.17%, a difference of 0.27%. The calculation for the Social Security COLA, however, is based on a different CPI series, the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, often referred to as the CPI-W. Since December of 2000, the year-over-year average for CPI-W is fractionally higher than YoY CPI at 2.47%, which is 0.31% higher than the YoY average for Chained CPI. This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
