boston-to-a-T on twitter.com There have been multiple explosions at the finish line for the Boston Marathon, with reports of at least dozens of injuries and a number of deaths. Two explosion occurred on Boylston Street near the intersections of Fairfield and Exeter streets just before 3 p.m. EST. Boston Police have confirmed that three people have died as a result of the blasts, while a recent CNN report says that more than 140 have been injured, with more than 10 amputations. CNN and NBC report that one of those who died was an 8-year-old child. The New York Post reports that 12 are dead and dozens more are injured, but it should be noted that this number has not been confirmed by other sources. At a press conference this evening, President Barack Obama said that it was not clear who was behind the explosions, but that they would be held responsible. The F.B.I. is currently leading the investigation. Reporters on the scene say they saw at least dozens of injuries and lost limbs. TV crews are showing images with lots of blood on the ground. "There are people who are really, really bloody," runner Laura McLean of Toronto told the AP. "They were pulling them into the medical tent." "It was just an explosion, it came out of nowhere," Boston.com sports producer Steve Silva, who was at the scene, said. "There are multiple injuries. I saw dismemberment, I saw blood everywhere. People are badly injured." At the time of writing, law enforcement officials have not commented on what caused the explosions. However, one law enforcement source has told NBC news that it was caused by at least one IED (improvised explosive device) and the Boston Marathon Facebook page has an update that refers to two bombs.  There have been multiple reports police are investigating the possibility of more explosive devices in different locations in Boston. The New York Times reports that one source told them two other explosive devices were found, and the WSJ reported that five other possible devices had been found, though they later said that police were unsure about these. At a press conference, Boston Police Department confirmed that there was also a fire at JFK Library this afternoon but it is unclear if it is related. CBS News has reported that police have an image of a "suspect," while the New York Post says they have confirmation an injured individual suspected of involvement is in custody. However, the Boston police have told Talking Points Memo that no one has been arrested yet. Fox News reports that it has been confirmed that a "person of interest" is in custody, but it has not been confirmed if the man was the perpetrator or a victim.  WABC-TV also reports that police are looking for a suspect, described as a "darker skinned or black male with a black backpack and black sweatshirt, possibly foreign national from the accent of the individual." The New York Police Department is stepping up counter-terrorism vehicles around Manhattan. Family members are being asked to call 617-635-4500, while witnesses should call: 800-494-TIPS. Google has also created a tool for finding people who were running the race. The Red Cross is accepting cash donations and blood donations. This video shows the moment of one explosion:  RT @joshcox: Do not go near the finish line at the #BostonMararthon -- 2 explosions in buildings twitter.com/JoshCox/status… Explosion at coply twitter.com/Boston_to_a_T/… What the fuck just happened?#bostonmarathon twitter.com/theoriginalwak… Runners blocked off #bostonmarathon twitter.com/Kevin_J_Donova… FREE AppDownload
