APCould this be the part in the familiar script in which the plan blows up in John Boehner's face? A GOP leadership aide confirmed that the House of Representatives is planning to move new amendments to keep the government funded later Monday, just hours before the government is set to shut down. The amendments include a one-year delay of the Affordable Care Act's individual mandate, along with language that would bar lawmakers, Congressional staffers, and administration staffers from receiving federal subsidies for health insurance under Obamacare. That amendment has been offered in the Senate by Sen. David Vitter (R-La.). The new plan is likely to cause the government to shut down, as the Democratic-controlled Senate will reject them. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid says he will not pass a continuing resolution that contains any changes to Obamacare. The Senate made good on that promise earlier Monday, rejecting two amendments that the House had passed on Saturday. But there are already signs that the latest GOP plan to avert a shutdown may have trouble passing through the Republican-controlled House. And the reactions coming out of the House Republican caucus suggest that this could be another blow-up in Boehner's face — a la his "Plan B" that failed ahead of the debate over the "fiscal cliff." One House member told National Review's Robert Costa that it "sux": Member txts from inside mtg: "this sux" I respond: "why?" Member doesn't respond Leaving mtg, in same elevator as Sanford, Steve King is vague when pressed on whether Boehner even has votes for new CR plan. Shrugs. Rep Don Young: "right now they don't have the votes to do anything" Rep. Michele Bachmann won't vote for new House plan, says it "doesn't go far enough." Opposition comes from some members opposed to cutting health plans of staffers. Remember, three weeks ago, Boehner and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor offered members a plan that would served as a ploy to make the Senate vote on Obamacare defunding — but would have kept the government funded if the Senate didn't pass Obamacare defunding. Conservatives called this out as a gimmick that wouldn't defund Obamacare. Second, the Vitter amendment might not get support because it would directly hit the pockets of Congressional staffers. When Vitter tried to bring up his amendment during debate over an unrelated energy-efficiency bill, Politico's Ginger Gibson reported that staffers from Republican offices were reaching out to their Democratic counterparts to get assurance that the amendment would not pass. With 232 Republicans in the House, Boehner can only afford 15 defections from his caucus to pass a bill. FREE AppDownload
