BloombergPeter Oppenheimer, Goldman SachsThis year, macro indicators have finally started to show signs that economic conditions may be improving in the UK, in the US and even in the crises-hit eurozone. Correspondingly, it has been a good year for risky assets. MSCI, the world index, has risen 20pc, the S&amp;P 500 in the US has risen 25pc and even the beleaguered eurozone equity market (the Eurostoxx 50) has managed to rebound 16pc. But taking January as a starting point is a bit arbitrary. Trends in markets can start at any time, and the recovery in so-called "risky" assets such as equities preceded the start of the year. Indeed, despite the cascade of economic woes, the US equity market has rebounded a staggering 160pc since its low in the aftermath of the Lehman collapse in 2008. Eurozone stock markets have faced a much tougher time, but even they have managed to recover by more than 40pc since the president of the ECB, Mario Draghi, dampened fears of an imminent collapse in the euro in mid-2012. In our view, the earlier "decoupling" of equity markets from the economies in which they sit had a lot to do with how financial markets have performed in the years before the financial crisis. To put this into a longer-term perspective, equities are just recovering from their worst 10-year relative return compared with government bonds ("risk-free" assets) in more than a century. This long period of dismal returns for shareholders relative to bondholders (investors who lent money to governments by buying their debt) reflects the 1990s overvaluation of equities. In that decade, a prolonged period of uninterrupted growth, coupled with low inflation and interest rates, made investors in shares more confident, and valuations increased. This culminated late in the decade with the technology revolution, which led investors to become more optimistic still. When the tech bubble burst in 2000, valuations collapsed. A brief period of better growth in the early part of the century was curbed by the financial crisis, triggered in the US housing market. The cumulative effect was to push down interest rates and government bond yields, resulting in a surge in the price of government bonds just as equity prices sank. This relative price move is reflected in one of the worst periods for owning stocks in more than a century. But it also provided the attractive valuation base to start a sharp rebound in prices. From current levels, therefore, valuations are far less compellingly cheap in equities than they were a year or so ago, while bond yields have risen to levels more consistent with fundamentals, reversing some of their overvaluation. The prospects from here for equity markets will therefore be largely shaped by actual growth in profits and dividends. We still believe profits will grow, supported by a rise in margins as well as growth in global GDP. Across the European markets, for example, we expect profits to grow by 14pc in 2014. This pace of growth may sound high, but would be fairly modest by the standards of typical post-recession recovery. Correspondingly, we expect the rate of acceleration in equity prices to slow. But we should not forget that inflation is low and likely to remain so. The total real (after-inflation) return that we forecast for 2014 for European equity markets is around 13pc. Also, since government bond yields remain very low, the "excess" return (what we would expect to receive in equity prices relative to returns in government bond markets) is likely to be in the top third of relative returns even as far back as the 1980s. Our themes continue to focus on scarcity, both in income and growth. As uncertainty spiked in recent years, companies, as well as investors, hoarded cash. As confidence returns, the reverse should apply. • Peter Oppenheimer is chief global equity strategist at Goldman Sachs  FREE AppDownload
