The economy continues to heal, but is doing so at a frustratingly tepid rate. Consider three important data points from the BLS: What are the most overlooked indicators in today’s report? The report underscores concerns about income and wealth inequalities. For example: Long-term unemployment is stuck at the alarmingly high level of 4.3 million, or 38% of the unemployed. This matters a great deal because the more time spent out of a job, the harder it is to subsequently get a well-paying job. The education-related gap is big and getting bigger. The unemployment rate for those with a college degree fell to 3.5% (from 3.8% the previous month) while that for those without a high school diploma increased to 11.3% (from 11.0%). Fortunately, the youth joblessness rate fell from 23.7% to 22.7%. Though still too high overall, this decline is particularly encouraging as persistently unemployed young people can risk becoming unemployable. Will today’s report help reduce Congressional gridlock on economic policies? No. Already, both parties have issued statements that reinforce rather than reduce the disparity in views about the past, present and future. Moreover, Congress is very busy with Syria. Lawmakers also have to deal with two budgetary issues: how to avoid a government budgetary shutdown and also sidestep a repeat of the 2011 debt ceiling debacle. How will it impact the Federal Reserve’s experimental support for the economy and markets? Today’s jobs report is neither strong enough nor weak enough to change our expectations that the Federal Reserve will likely announce the following on September 18th: (i) a small reduction in its exceptional purchases of securities – call it “taper light;” (ii) focus this reduction on U.S. Treasuries rather than mortgage-backed securities; (iii) re-assure markets that the Fed stands ready to reverse its policy change should the economy weaken markedly; (iv) keep policy interest rates floored essentially at zero; and (v) re-iterate, and maybe even evolve, its forward policy guidance. FREE AppDownload
