But as it turns out, Li’s preferred economic yardsticks actually do a pretty good job of picking up coming shifts in the official measure of the Chinese economy’s growth. Doubts about the utility of the official GDP measure aside, the numbers that come out of China’s statistics bureau still move markets and inform economists’ thinking about what is happening in the world’s second-largest economy. In other words, the official data still matter, and an early read on where they’re going can be a critical insight. When Credit Suisse analysts tracked the quarterly change in the premier’s three favored economic measures in a forward-looking indicator they called the Li Keqiang Momentum Index (LKMI), they found that the index correlated better with China’s GDP growth than two of China’s most closely watched forward-looking indicators – the purchasing managers’ index survey results generated separately by HSBC and China’s National Bureau of Statistics.  Image courtesy of Credit Suisse. It’s an especially good sign, then, that the LKMI shows that the slowdown in Chinese growth that has been making investors the world over nervous for the past year seems to have come to an end in the second quarter. “We believe the Chinese economy has bottomed,” Credit Suisse Chief Economist for Non-Japan Asia Dong Tao wrote in a recent report. “The upward momentum may not be strong, but stabilization itself would be good news, given how bearish market participants appear to be about China’s outlook.” Image courtesy of Credit Suisse. Tao said that all three of the LKMI’s indicators have started to gather steam in the third quarter, which reflects the positive news the economist and his team of analysts have been hearing anecdotally: Corporations report that sales are improving – though Tao said there appears to be no specific catalyst – and order flows remained high even in July and August, which are usually slow months. Tao also said that banks are speeding up the pace at which they approve loans for a growing number of infrastructure projects, prompted by the Chinese government’s announcement in July that it would pump more money into urban infrastructure and railways in order to facilitate economic output. Image courtesy of Credit Suisse. But as the improvements are relatively new, it is worth asking whether they are here to stay or just a blip in the data. The answer, Credit Suisse’s economists said, is the former. But that doesn’t come without a caveat: “Bleeding has stopped,” they noted. “But surgery is still needed.” First, the bleeding. The government’s crackdown on the country’s frothy housing market should soon ease – or at least not expand – potentially providing a boost to the rest of the economy, Tao explained. In an effort earlier this year to address what Credit Suisse analysts have previously described as a property bubble, Chinese officials raised the required down payment on new homes and slapped a 20 percent capital gains tax on home sales. In May, the government delayed approvals for pre-sale permits, which are permission slips to sell homes that are still under construction. But Tao said that the government’s stance may be softening, and that brisk land sales mean that construction could soon pick up as well. “Beijing no longer considers the housing sector as a source of risk, but a pillar to growth,” Tao wrote. While it’s still possible that the government could experiment with a property tax, he said, limitations on people buying apartments in cities in which they do not live will probably fall by the wayside. Local governments are also getting back into the spending groove. When China unleashed a $586 billion fiscal stimulus package during the global financial crisis in 2009, local governments were responsible for providing $180 billion worth of the infrastructure spending. But concerns soon started to emerge about the size and sustainability of local government debts, and then local infrastructure activity paused while the Chinese political leadership was going through a once-a-decade changeup that began in November and ended in March. Recently, the Chinese government prodded local governments to get the investment machine running again, and Tao pointed to a number of new bank-supported projects, especially to build new subways and railways, as evidence that the prodding was having the intended effect. Finally, in a theme Credit Suisse analysts have visited before, the fact that economic conditions are improving in the U.S., Europe and Japan – all important customers for Chinese goods – will be a positive for Chinese exports. Tao did caution, however, that the capital flight wreaking havoc in the emerging markets to which China also sends plenty of goods will likewise be a negative. “None of the new supports to growth are robust,” Tao wrote. But they should at the very least keep things in China from getting much worse. Now, the surgery. To set China on a path to sustainable long-term growth, the government must push through structural reforms that encourage private investment, Tao said. It could start by opening up China’s service sector and cutting corporate taxes. More ambitious initiatives would include breaking up the banking monopoly and scrapping the hukou system, a household registration system that makes it difficult for the waves of migrants who flock to China’s cities from the countryside to access healthcare and education. Such fundamental reforms are absolutely critical to China’s future growth because the current economic drivers – sky-high real estate inflation and local governments drowning themselves in debt to build more than they need – are tottering along on a high-wire that looks increasingly shaky. “Until structural reforms re-engage private investment, the growth is ‘buying time’ because [both] the current housing rally…and local government investments are unsustainable,” Tao wrote. The Communist Party holds a plenary session in October that could result in the announcement of some broad reform goals, but probably not concrete policy actions, he said. For that, China and investors will have to wait. “We believe that the Xi-Li regime (General Secretary Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang) is committed to reform, but detailed structural reforms may not arrive as soon as October,” Tao wrote. Hard work lies ahead for Chinese officials to create the conditions necessary for stable, long-term growth, but at least China’s recent decline seems to have run its course. FREE AppDownload
