APIt looks like Bill de Blasio is about to become the next mayor of New York City, and one of his signature policy proposals is an income tax increase on wealthy New Yorkers to pay for pre-Kindergarten and after school programs. He'd raise New York City's top income tax rate from 3.876% to 4.41%, but only on incomes over $500,000. Here's what you should know about the tax: So, all that said: Is De Blasio's tax plan a good idea? I'm actually agnostic on it. I don't think New York City government needs more money; we already have some of the highest taxes in the country, on income and also on rental and commercial property. Our sales tax rate is also high, though lots of items are exempt from sales tax. The city uses those receipts to finance an unusually high level of per-capita spending. Over the last decade, much of the city's rising tax receipts have gotten sucked into a vortex of pension and employee health care costs that the Bloomberg administration has been unable to control. All of which is to say, if it's important for New York City to make new investments in pre-Kindergarten and after school programs, it ought to be able to find the money by cutting the budget elsewhere. De Blasio even nods to this by making the tax proposal temporary; he told the New York Times that after five years he'd seek to replace the tax with another funding source or cost cuts elsewhere. Perhaps he's hoping to negotiate savings on pension benefits or employee healthcare in the meantime. That said, I think the risk of economic damage from higher income taxes is oversold, at least in the specific context of New York City. It's not that taxes don't influence economic decisionmaking; the whole reason that Greenwich and Stamford have emerged as centers for the hedge fund industry is a desire to avoid taxation in New York. But New York has changed over the last few decades in ways that make it more desirable than ever as a place for the global elite to live and work. You can see this in soaring prices for luxury real estate. New York City's capacity to get away with taxing the hell out of the wealthy is likely higher than ever. The principal barriers to job creation and growth in New York City are non-tax factors, with the extremely high cost of both housing and commercial real estate are at the top of the list. The city also has a punishing regulatory environment. Some industries (think banking, advertising, media, fashion and law) have good reasons to put up with the cost and hassle; others get pushed out. If the next mayor implements effective policies to bring down the pre-tax cost of living and working in New York (a big if), that would more than offset any economic damage that would come from a 0.534% increase in income tax rates on New York's wealthiest residents. So if you're worried about New York's economy, you should probably focus on what the candidates have to say about real estate development more than their tax plans. FREE AppDownload
