APSen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) argued in a Houston Chronicle op-ed this morning that a partial government shutdown might be necessary to "restore fiscal sanity," slamming President Barack Obama for using fiscal deadlines as political brinkmanship.  In his op-ed, Cornyn highlighted three looming fights to come before the end of March — the debt ceiling, the sequester, and the continuing appropriations resolution that provides funding for the federal government.  Cornyn wrote that it is "unacceptable" that Obama has said he won't negotiate over the debt ceiling:  [Obama] has already signaled an unwillingness to negotiate over the debt ceiling. This is unacceptable. The president should immediately put forward a plan that addresses these deadlines, and he should launch serious, transparent budget negotiations. The biggest fiscal problem in Washington is excessive spending, not insufficient taxation. Tax cuts didn't cause this problem, so tax increases won't solve it. If we don't reduce spending and reform our three biggest entitlement programs — Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security — then we will strangle economic growth, destroy jobs and reduce our standard of living. With the national debt above $16 trillion, and with more than $100 trillion in unfunded liabilities hanging over us, our toughest fiscal decisions cannot be postponed any longer. Cornyn concluded his op-ed by writing that a partial shutdown might be necessary "to secure the long-term fiscal well being of our country, rather than plod along the path of Greece, Italy and Spain." Obama and others have argued that using the debt ceiling as a negotiation tactic is unacceptable. He wanted an increase in the debt ceiling to be part of a fiscal cliff deal. But even though he didn't get that, he has said he would not negotiate over what he called a "weapon ... destroying our own credit rating." "That is a bad strategy for America, it's a bad strategy for your businesses and it is not a game I will play," Obama said in remarks to business leaders in December. "We are not going to play that game again next year. We've got to break that habit before it starts." FREE AppDownload
