APCrazy like a fox.For the past few weeks, I've been scratching my head about why a minority faction of one of our two political parties seems so determined to shut the government down. This group of extremists, known as "Tea Party Republicans," doesn't seem to care about the damage a shutdown will do to our fragile economy or confidence in our government. They also don't seem to care that the larger party they are members of, the once-admired Republican Party, will be tarnished by their selfish, irresponsible behavior. Instead, the Tea Party extremists just say that, because they don't like a particular piece of legislation, they are justified in shutting the whole government down. Grandstanding and brinksmanship are one thing, but the extremists who now control the Republican Party don't seem to be engaging in grandstanding and brinksmanship. Rather, they appear to be arguing that, any time a minority faction of our government is not given everything it wants by the rest of the government, it is acceptable to shut the government down. If this view of our government becomes accepted as non-crazy behavior, life in this country is going to get interesting in the next few years. Anyway, this position and attitude has been mystifying to me: Why engage in selfish, irresponsible behavior, hurt America and Americans, and destroy your political party's brand when you don't have to? Especially when even the Tea Party admits that the shutdown threat no longer has anything to do with the national debt! My colleagues have explained two of the reasons, namely that 1) Voting districts have been so successfully gerrymandered that Tea Party extremists are assured of being reelected even if they behave like selfish, irresponsible lunatics, and 2) the country has become more conservative in recent years. That helped me understand. But now, on the eve of the shutdown, the "giddy" behavior the Tea Party extremists are displaying is becoming even more comprehensible. Why? Because the first parts of the government that will be shut down are the parts of the government that the Tea Party extremists say they hate! Specifically: Meanwhile, the parts of the government that Tea Party extremists love will keep right on cranking: FREE AppDownload
