Stephen Lam/ReutersYHOO’s Q3 results for their core business (ex holdings in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan) were highlighted by a continuation of troubling trends (per Barron’s Online): Display ad revenue fell 7%, to $470 million, versus the year-earlier quarter  The number of ads sold rose 1%, year over year. The average price per ad fell 7%. Search ad revenue fell 8% to $435 million. The number of paid clicks rose 21%, year over year, while the price per click fell 4%. The company’s Ebitda, on an adjusted basis, was down 19% from the prior-year period, at $331 million. So how on earth is the stock up this morning, just a couple percent from the 8 years highs, the answer is their remaining 24% stake in Alibaba the Chinese online commerce site that is expected to IPO in the U.S. or Hong Kong in the first half of 2014 that will likely sport a market cap north of $100 billion and maybe as high as $200 (to put this in context AMZN has a $139 billion market cap) The investment community is in near universal agreement that there is nothing but upside for YHOO as Alibaba heads towards IPO, that it is a slam dunk that the limited disclosure that investors have on this private CHINESE company are money good and that there won’t be on road-bumps along the way that make investors re-think that the IPO will be wildly successful and that the performance post deal will be even better. Last night on YHOO’s call they disclosed some data about Alibaba’s fiscal Q2 showing year over year gains in sales up 61%, earnings up 159% led by margins that were far better than most analysts had expected.  This is the only reason YHOO is up this morning and will likely remain bid into the deal. I did read one intelligent comment on the potential for future eye-popping performance by Alibaba from Bernstein analyst Carlos Kirjner (who rates the shares a Buy with a $40 twelve month price target): We still have doubts on whether the margin trajectory we have seen is indeed the result of fundamental, organic changes, or whether there are effects that are not sustainable in the long term artificially propping up margins (e.g. one-time gains). There are many businesses within Alibaba (e.g., Alibaba.com) and we just don’t know how the different parts are moving. That said we now have two quarters of incremental operating margins much greater than the historical 55% incremental margin we had seen last year, specifically 86% in 1Q13 and 73% in 2Q13. Therefore, in view of the limited data we have, we must assume that the highest probability incremental margin profile for Alibaba is materially higher than the 55% or so Alibaba was showing last year. Perhaps still conservatively, we assume that Alibaba’s incremental contribution margins for 2013 will be 65%, and decline about 300 bps a year towards 55%, which we think is roughly in line to what e-Bay gets or can get in its Marketplaces business. The take-away here is that analyst just don’t know how to model future growth, but despite that fact, analysts have not been more conservative about Alibaba’s value.  IN the same note to clients, Kirjner lays out his comparable valuation method for Alibaba: We value Alibaba on a DCF basis, ascribing TaoBao and TMall a valuation of ~$183 billion, and the  remaining assets (e.g., Aliyun, eTao, AliExpress, and the stake on AliPay) another ~$7 billion, to get to  our valuation. This corresponds to 30x times our estimate of 2015 net income, which is now $6.1 billion. Note that Tencent trades at 30x 2015 adjusted EPS, with Tencent consensus 2015 earnings growing around ~25%, while we expect Alibaba’s to grow 36% in 2015. With the same PEG ratio, we would have a valuation of roughly $220 billion for Alibaba. Well there you have it people, just because all the other Chinese Internet companies trade at ludicrous valuations, this one should too, and YHOO’s stake in Alibaba has basically rendered their new CEO Marissa Mayer a portfolio manger of Asian internet stock holdings with the side hobby of either winding down their existing business and using the Asian cash to figure out a plan in Social and Mobile almost 5 years after their fiercest competitors have done. I dont have any problems with YHOO, with Mayer, or her evolving plan.  I think she is likely the most fortunate CEO on the planet, brought in to turn around a pig of a company while reaping the benefits of a $1 billion investment from 8 years ago that will afford her the opportunity to buy startups with no revenue for $27 million just to hire the 17 year old founder. To own YHOO here is to take the leap of faith that the mania in internet stocks both here and abroad has legs.  Tencent in Hong Kong is up almost 80% from its lows in April when it was down on the year, while BIDU is up 82% since the April lows when also was down on the year.  What has changed since the spring?? and why couldn’t it revert back??  To me, this mania is a fairly new found thing, but these companies have gained tens of billions of dollars of market cap with only marginally improving results vs previous expectations.  Just because everything is going up doesn’t mean it will continue to do so. I guess I will just leave this rant with one last thought – YHOO has been a very unique investment, and those that understood that to be long the stock when Mayer took over more than a year ago had little to do with their core business and all to do with their investments absolutely nailed it.  We were in that camp in Sept 2012 when the stock was $16 (here), but now, to initiate new longs at current levels, with the current backdrop, you are probably better off buying TSLA! FREE AppDownload
