I spoke with Siegel on Friday, Nov. 29. In our interview on Dec. 10 of last year, you said that investors could expect a 25% return this year. On that day the S&amp;P 500 closed at 1,424, and Wednesday it closed at 1,815, which is a 27% gain. Congratulations. What do you consider the fair value of the S&amp;P 500 to be today? Thank you. I’ve gotten quite a few media contacts and congratulations because I said in January 2012 that the Dow would finish this year between 16,000 and 17,000. I’ve learned that humility, rather than hubris, is the proper response to a good market prediction. You know how uncertain market direction over the short term is. But, that said, I think fair market value for the stocks today is 10% to 15% higher, and that might even be on the conservative side. As I mentioned last year, when you are in a low-to-moderate interest-rate environment, the average price-earnings ratio for stocks is 18 to 19. If you use reported earnings, which I think are too conservative in terms of their predictive value, we’re at 16.7 times next year’s estimate of forward earnings. That’s slightly above the long-term median but it’s below the average. In a low-to-moderate interest-rate environment, the average is 18- to 19-times earnings. I think this bull market has definitely more to run. A lot of factors are weighing on investors’ minds about equity prices, particularly those investors who look out over 10-year or longer time horizons. Let me ask you about some of those concerns. Let’s start with quantitative easing (QE). To what extent do you believe QE has inflated stock prices, and should investors be fearful that the Fed might taper or otherwise become less accommodative? The biggest myth in the market today is that this bull run is because of quantitative easing. I’m not going to deny that an easy Fed is helpful, but this market is really being driven by fundamentals. Earnings are up 10% to 13% this year over last year, and this is despite very slow GDP growth both in the United States and the rest of the world. I expect GDP growth next year to be 3.5% or higher.  I admit that it might not reach that, and I have been a bit overly optimistic when predicting GDP in the past. But we got 2% growth this year, and most economists agree there was about 1.5% fiscal drag due to the higher taxes and the cutback in spending.  If you add that 1.5% back you get 3.5%. I wouldn’t be surprised if GDP pushes 4%. My feeling is that the market is far too focused on QE, and people are incorrectly calling this “a QE-driven market.” I don’t understand why they do that, because if they looked at P/Es, earnings and interest rates, they would realize that the fundamentals support this bull run. Another concern is that corporate profit margins are at historically high levels, as are corporate profits as a share of GDP. When we talked about this last year, you said it was due to the increased share of revenue from foreign sales and because more high-margin technology sales were showing up in corporate revenues. Are those are still the dominant trends?  One factor yielding higher margins is that we have very low leverage among corporations today. They have $1.5 trillion in cash on their balance sheets. This leads to higher margins because corporations don’t have to spend that much on interest expense. Today, 80% of corporate liabilities are long-term debt. In 1996, which was the last time that we were not in a recession and were at average margin levels, only 50% of corporate debt was long-term. Firms have now locked in these low interest rates on longer-term debt. Even if interest rates rise, their exposure is relatively small. And if rates rise, they’re going to start getting some interest on their $1.5 trillion of cash. Corporations have locked in their long-term debt, while their assets are short-term. I don’t think they will be hurt much by any rise in interest rates. The tech sector has become a larger slice of S&amp;P, but the P/E of the technology sector is still very low from a historical standpoint. As you mentioned, the margins for technology are historically always higher because most of their assets are intangibles, such as copyrights and patents, which don’t get expensed. That is a source of those high margins. Margins are still high compared to the long-term average, but secular – not cyclical – factors are driving them up. High margins investors should worry about occur when you are at a top of the business cycle with demand that is so strong that firms can raise their prices and know that their products will still sell. That’s not the case today. There is still a general over-supply of goods. That’s one reason why inflation remains at historic lows. If you go back historically, it’s only been at the top of the business cycle when demand has outstripped supply that one should worry. We do not see that phenomenon occurring now in the economy. The household savings rate is also at a historically low level, as households continue to de-lever and save more. Does that concern you at all? The savings rate is still higher than what it was pre-crash. We have ratcheted saving up a little bit. Don’t forget that with rising asset prices – and now we also have rising home prices – savings are taking place in the form of capital gains. Households are not going to cut back on their spending, because they’re going to look at their balance sheets and find themselves more comfortable than they were before. The number of homeowners who are underwater has decreased sharply since the 2008-2009 crash. There’s more liquidity in the market. There is still a lot of cash in money market funds. No, I don’t think we’re going to see a cutback in consumer spending. As opposed to last year, when we faced a Social Security tax increase of 2% for everyone and higher rates for virtually all high-income tax payers, there are no increases in taxes scheduled or anticipated in 2014. That hit to the pocketbook is not going to occur, and with more comfortable 401(k) and home-equity positions, consumer spending should become stronger in 2014. Read The Rest Of The Interview At AdvisorPerspectives.com » This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
