APA $51 Billion Sandy relief package is coming on January 15th, according to Rep. Peter King of New York and Rep. Chris Smith of New Jersey. Their comments just aired on CNN. King had vociferously blasted Boehner last night and earlier today after a bill to provide aide for Sandy victims was unexpectedly pulled. A $9 billion package will come on Friday to extend the flood insurance benefits to make sure that people will survive until the full package comes through.  The group was resigned to the fact that the full $61 billion Senate bill will not see a vote today. Still Rep. King backed up Speaker Boehner and Leader Eric Cantor and insisted he'd vote for them in leadership positions, as did Rep. Michael Grimm. Grimm had earlier implied that he would not vote for Speaker Boehner. Earlier today Rep. King gave Boehner a major tongue lashing for canceling the vote.  After the meeting with Boehner and Cantor, the team of GOP New Yorkers seems to have drastically changed their tune.  "As far as I'm concerned," the Long Island Republican said, "that was a lifetime ago." King mentioned that "As long as there are 218 votes on January 15" all of this is water under the bridge.  Since the House will be drawing this bill from scratch, the group also removed many of the controversial earmarks that could have possibly held the passage back. King assured reporters that there was "No earmarks, no pork, anything that was at all questionable is out." Rep. Michael Grimm, a sophomore GOP representative from battered Staten Island, emphasized that he did plan to vote to re-elect the current House leadership team, and that his top concern was getting aid for his constituents.  "We have an economic calamity waiting in the wings if we don't rebuild New York and New Jersey," Grimm said after joining the press conference.  The first vote is Friday in order to extend the flood insurance program, which New Jersey Governor Chris Christie today said is nearly broke. This will buy the time to get the full package through.  More details as they come.  FREE AppDownload
