When it comes to gracious New York City living, few places outdo 15 Central Park West. But maintaining a high standard of decorum requires a few ground rules. The standard lease rules for tenants of the Zeckendorfs-developed condominium building run the gamut, from the banning of flammable materials to feeding pigeons, according to a standard Brown Harris Stevens lease obtained by The Real Deal. The agreement, put together by the brokerage, which manages the building, is geared toward apartment owners who want to rent out their units. A spokesperson for Brown Harris Stevens declined to comment, and the firm’s Awilda Vicens and Brenna Clarke Bell, co-directors of the closing department at 15 Central Park West, did not respond to requests for comment. Some rules, such as one forbidding barbecuing, derive from New York City laws, according to one broker who has done numerous deals at the property but requested anonymity. And many are standard. But others seem tailored to the 202-unit building itself. For example, because the blockbuster development is something of a tourist attraction, a rule banning tours and exhibitions is on the books. Restrictions against shaking carpets out of unit windows and only using skateboards and strollers in a certain elevator, meanwhile, could be specific to Brown Harris Stevens-managed properties, rather than the building itself, another source said. “But there are other buildings that have far more weird house rules,” the source added, noting that in smaller buildings it can be far easier to “get weird rules passed.” Here are a few of the most colorful rules at 15 Central Park West, in all their glorious legalese: 1. No bicycles, rollerblades, scooters, skateboards or similar vehicle shall be taken into or from the building through the main entrance hall or shall be allowed in any of the elevators of the building other than the elevator designated by the Condominium Board or the Managing Agent for such purpose or ridden in the building or courtyard. 2. Trunks and heavy baggage shall be taken in or out of the building only by the elevator designated by the Condominium Board or the Managing Agent for the purpose and only through the service entrances. 3. Nothing shall be hung or shaken from any doors, windows, or placed upon the windowsills of the building. 4. There shall be no playing or lounging in the entrances, passages, public halls, elevators, vestibules, corridors stairways or fire towers of the building. 5. Residential unit owners shall, at their own cost and expense, obtain and keep in full force and effect for each residential unit, storage bin and wine cellar owned by them comprehensive personal liability insurance against claims of bodily injury, property damage coverage with a minimum combined single limit of liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence. The Condominium Board may, from time to time, increase the amounts or types of insurance required hereunder to reflect changes in economic conditions. 6. There shall be no barbecuing in the residential units, residential common elements or in the common elements. 7. No residential unit owner shall make, cause or permit any unusual, disturbing or objectionable noises or odors. 8. No residential unit owner shall play upon or suffer to be played upon any musical instrument, phonograph, radio, television set or other loudspeaker between 11:00 p.m. and the following 9:00 a.m. 9. No pigeons or other birds or animals shall be fed from the windowsills or other public portions of the building, or on the sidewalk or street adjacent to the building. 10. No “visiting” or “guest” pets shall be permitted in the building. 11. No group tour, open house or exhibition of any residential unit or its contents shall be conducted without the consent of the Condominium Board or the Managing Agent in each instance. 12. Not less than 80 percent of the total floor area of each room of the residential unit (excepting kitchens, pantries, bathrooms, closets and foyers) must be covered with rugs, carpeting or equally effective noise-reducing material. 13. Plantings shall be placed in containers impervious to dampness and standing on supports at least four inches from the terrace or roof surface. FREE AppDownload
