If you want to work in banking but are uncertain as to what the biggest banks look for when they hire, we may have some answers for you. We’ve combed through the eFinancialCareers database to look for the commonest features of people who work or have worked in nine of the biggest banks in the world (Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, UBS, Credit Suisse, Bank of America, and Barclays). Our database has over 1m résumés in total, but we focused our attention on the 90,000 CVs that have been uploaded in the last three months. We screened these CVs on the basis of educational establishment, industry qualifications, languages spoken and sportiness. The results were fairly predictable – Goldman Sachs employs the most highly educated bankers from the biggest name universities. But there were some surprises. These included the fact that the most sporty bankers seem to work at UBS and that a very high proportion of the CVs in our database are from speakers of Mandarin or Cantonese or Hindi. At Citigroup, for example, a massive 37% of our CVs are from people who speak one of these three languages. Based on our analysis, we’ve suggested what makes employees at each bank distinct.Our findings are not scientific. The results may be skewed by the prevalence of a large number of Europeans (and Mandarin speakers) on our database. Nor have they been validated by each of the banks concerned, and sometimes the variations between banks are small. Nevertheless, this is what we think our figures suggest. Surprise, surprise: Goldman Sachs employs the most highly educated bankers from the biggest name universities, with the greatest ability to converse in different languages. Of 1,762 resumes loaded into our system over the past three months with the words ‘Goldman Sachs’ written on them… If Goldman Sachs is comparatively keen on elite universities, the same can’t be said for J.P. Morgan. Of 1,996 resumes loaded into our system in the past three months with ‘J.P. Morgan’ written on them… We infer that J.P. Morgan is less educationally elitist than Goldman Sachs. Like Goldman, Morgan Stanley likes big name universities. According to our database, it also has one of the highest proportions of sports enthusiasts. Of 2,392 ‘Morgan Stanley’ resumes loaded into our system in the past three months… This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
