Wikimedia CommonsDeloitte has agreed to a one-year suspension from consulting work at New York regulated financial services firms and to pay $10 million to the state, Governor Andrew Cuomo's office said in a release. [via Dealbook] The settlement has to do with the auditor's past consulting work for U.K. investment bank Standard Chartered, which was slapped with money laundering allegations last summer. Back in August 2012, New York's Department of Financial Services released explosive allegations against Standard Chartered accusing it of facilitating billions of dollars in transactions for Iran, which is currently in under U.S. sanctions.  According to the New York regulator's complaint, Standard Chartered allegedly asked the U.K.-headquartered auditor to water down its reports.  From the NY DFS complaint:  45. Having improperly gleaned insights into the regulators’ concerns and strategies for investigating U-Turn-related misconduct, SCB asked D&amp;T to delete from its draft “independent” report any reference to certain types of payments that could ultimately reveal SCB’s Iranian U-Turn practices. In an email discussing D&amp;T’s draft, a D&amp;T partner admitted that “we agreed” to SCB’s request because “this is too much and too politically sensitive for both SCB and Deloitte. That is why I drafted the watered-down version.” — Page 19 Here's the release detailing Deloitte's settlement:  Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the Administration has reached an agreement with Deloitte Financial Advisory Services (“Deloitte”) regarding the company’s misconduct, violations of law, and lack of autonomy during its consulting work at Standard Chartered on anti-money laundering issues. Under the agreement, Deloitte agrees to a one-year, voluntary suspension from consulting work at financial institutions regulated by the New York State Department of Financial Services (“DFS”), will make a $10 million payment to the State of New York, and will implement a set of reforms designed to help address conflicts of interest in the consulting industry. DFS intends to use the reforms Deloitte has agreed to today as a model that will govern all independent consulting firms that seek to be retained or approved by DFS. These reforms could also potentially serve as a template for other government agencies that retain independent consultants in regulatory work. “The State’s agreement with Deloitte will serve as a new model for reforming the financial services consulting industry in New York as well as across the country,” Governor Cuomo said. “When tasked by government agencies to undertake regulatory work at financial institutions, it is critical for these consultants to remain autonomous and avoid conflicts of interest. Our homeowners, investors and economy are protected when independent consultants are truly ‘independent.” Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, said, “At times, the consulting industry has been infected by an 'I'll scratch your back if you scratch mine' culture and a stunning lack of independence. Today, we are taking an important step in helping ensure that consultants are independent voices – rather than beholden to the large institutions that pay their fees. Our aggressive work investigating and reforming the consulting industry is far from over and will continue in the days, weeks, and months ahead.” DFS’s Investigation into Deloitte's Work at Standard Chartered In 2004, Standard Chartered executed a joint written agreement with the New York State Banking Department (“the Department” – a DFS predecessor agency) and Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“FRBNY”), which identified several compliance and risk management deficiencies in the anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act controls at Standard Chartered's New York branch. The agreement required Standard Chartered to retain a qualified independent consulting firm to review anti-money laundering issues at the bank. Standard Chartered engaged Deloitte to conduct that review. DFS’s investigation into Deloitte’s conduct during its consultant work at Standard Chartered found that the company: Deloitte Agreement To resolve the misconduct, lack of autonomy, and violations of law at Deloitte uncovered during DFS's investigation, Deloitte has agreed to: Here's a statement from Deloitte sent to Business Insider:  As a leading professional services firm, Deloitte has an important responsibility to continually elevate the standards that govern our work and that of our profession. As such, Deloitte FAS has voluntarily entered into an agreement with the New York Department of Financial Services that resolves DFS’ inquiry into Deloitte FAS’ role in the 2004-2005 Standard Chartered Bank matter.   We are pleased that, as the agreement states, a thorough investigation by DFS found no evidence that Deloitte FAS knew of, or aided, abetted or concealed any alleged violation of law by SCB. Deloitte FAS looks forward to working constructively with DFS to establish best practices and procedures that are ultimately intended to become the industry standard for all independent consulting engagements under DFS’ supervision. It is important to note that, as the agreement also states: “This is not intended to affect engagements performed by any Deloitte entity other than Deloitte FAS.  Neither the fact of this agreement nor any of its terms is intended to be, or should be construed as, a reflection of any of the other practices of Deloitte-affiliated entities.” FREE AppDownload
