(AP Photo/Paul Sakuma)We talked about CFA vs. MBA previously, but this is more fundamental. It's one of those classic questions that always end up with "it depends".  I do get why we arrive at that conclusion, as the question is so broad and cannot be generalized for each candidate's circumstances. Yet, it' still so anti-climatic and unsatisfactory.  So, I'm just going to (wo)man-up, apply the 80/20 rule and take a more definitive stance on this controversial subject. My take? MBAs are becoming less worth it. Here's why. Which MBA?To assess this question, I focused on the top 30 MBA courses in the latest 2013 FT Global MBA Rankings. It's a common goal for candidates to aim for the top courses anyway. What's the current conditions for MBAs? What do you aim to get out of an MBA? Are There Better Ways to Achieve These Goals?Getting an MBA used to be a ticket to huge and sustainable salary boost. With that promise waning and the skyrocketing costs, is MBA still a worthwhile investment? To tackle this question, a good starting point is to think about the objectives of getting an MBA and  evaluate if there are better alternatives: #1. Credentials and credibility - with the abundance of MBAs and degree inflation, I'd argue that employers would value actual work experience more as a signal of quality. Because anyone can buy an MBA, no one can buy the work experience and knowledge from doing the job itself. This certainly applies to me when I hire a junior in my team.  #2. Improve skill set / knowledge - you learn best on the job. No amount of theory could prepare you for the practical skills needed. Plus it looks good on your CV too. Identify what skills or knowledge of a specific job you would like to obtain, then try to get a job in that area. Just like anything (even MBA applications), you need to be proactive to search and ask for the job you want experience in. At least you still get paid, practical work experiences and not end up with student debt. #3. Change careers / career advancement - Why do an MBA, incur $300k for 2 years, only to change jobs? Why not do it now? Ask for the internship, work for free even for a short time to gain valuable experiences for your CV to diversify and land the job you want, now. #4. Network - It's true that you have more time to meet new people, attend events and meet up for coffee when not working full time. But this shouldn't be your sole reason for taking up an MBA, as you can make time for this and start tapping and expanding your network now. Join societies, clubs or events post work or on weekends and off you go. #5. Have a good time / find yourself - The desire of a guilt-free career break or search for new direction is a common reason (subconscious or not) for taking an MBA. Given the high cost and additional work involved in this demanding course, I'd say it's better to take at least 6 months off to travel the world, meet people or spend time with family. Not only it gives you the battery recharge you desperately need, I'm confident that you will learn more about your true likes and dislikes during that period of idleness, to give you a better sense of direction and purpose for your next phase. For the rest of this post head to Wall Street Oasis&gt; FREE AppDownload
