AP ImagesI was saddened to learn of the passing of iconic fashion designer Lilly Pulitzer Rousseau.  Lilly, who made the brightly colored shift dress a staple in women's wardrobes, died on Sunday morning in her Palm Beach home surrounded by friends and family. She was 81. I have been wearing Lilly Pulitzer designs devotedly since I was a teenager. Even my New York apartment is completely decked out with the signature patterns and bright colors. I guess you could say I'm somewhat obsessed.  Lilly Pulitzer was someone I admired and not just for the clothing she inspired. You see, Lilly Pulitzer is more than just a brand, it's a lifestyle. Let me explain...  Lilly was coming around at a time when everyone was very prim and proper and doing all the right things.  You could say she broke the rules.   In 1952, the 21-year-old New York socialite eloped with Peter Pulitzer, the grandson of newspaper publisher Joseph Pulitzer. (They got divorced in 1969) She left her family in New York and moved to Palm Beach, Florida with her first husband.  While in Florida, she needed something to keep her occupied other than just being a housewife. Her husband's family had an orchard so she opened up a juice stand in 1959.   The juice left stains on her clothes, so she went to her seamstress to make dresses in a print that would disguise the juice stains. That's how it all started.   People came to her stand for the juice, but they also wanted to buy the brightly-colored dresses she was wearing.  At that time, clothing was pretty conservative. There weren't many bright colors or anything wild. Lilly really created something avant garde.  In 1962, Lilly's former classmate and then-First Lady, Jacqueline Kennedy, appeared on a LIFE magazine cover wearing a Lilly shift dress. The brand took off from there. Some of the biggest names in the fashion industry have even acknowledged her as an icon:  Diane von Furstenberg: "Lilly Pulitzer...Palm beach at its best! A timeless American style! Michael Kors: "With her bold prints and sunny colors, Lilly taught the world about Palm Beach style."  Lilly retired from the day-to-day operations of the brand in 1993, but remained on as a consultant.    Today, Lilly Pulitzer, which is owned by Oxford Industries, is headquartered in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania. The brand is sold in Lilly stores, online, in signature stores, boutiques and major department stores across the country.  In social media spheres, Lilly Pulitzer has more than 488,000 Facebook "Likes," more than 68,000 Twitter followers and more than 64,000 Instagram followers. The clothing still incorporates the brightly-colored patterns (flowers, seashells, animals, etc.) and "spill proof" designs that she inspired. Lilly's designs symbolize a woman who is willing to take a chance.  Lilly represents a woman who doesn't want to just blend in with the crowd, but wants to be a little brighter.  Here are a few photos of my life in Lilly:  Julia La Roche for BI   Julia La Roche for BI BI Julia La Roche for BI Julia La Roche for BI FREE AppDownload
