Getty Images/Ethan MillerTech hardware giant Cisco just reported first quarter earnings, and the company beat expectations on both the top and bottom lines. Adjusted earnings per share came in at $0.51 per share, ahead of analysts' consensus estimate for $0.49 EPS. Revenues in the first quarter were $12.22 billion, slightly above the consensus forecast for $12.17 billion. Gross margin was 63.0%. Analysts were looking for 61.9%. Shares are up 7.8% in after-hours trading. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; Below is the full text from the release: SAN JOSE, CA--(Marketwired - May 15, 2013) - Cisco (NASDAQ:CSCO) Cisco, the worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate, today reported its third quarter results for the period ended April 27, 2013. Cisco reported third quarter net sales of $12.2 billion, net income on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis of $2.5 billion or $0.46 per share, and non-GAAP net income of $2.7 billion or $0.51 per share. "Cisco is executing at a very high level in a slow, but steady economic environment. We are especially pleased with our ninth consecutive record revenue quarter. We are starting to see some good signs in the US and other parts of the world which are encouraging," stated Cisco Chairman and CEO John Chambers. "We have the right products, the right solutions and our customers are coming to us to solve their biggest business problems. The pace of change is increasing and Cisco is well positioned." Chambers continued, "We have always believed that the Internet will revolutionize the way we work, live, play, and learn. This has never been truer than it is today, with cloud, mobility and video all coming together to deliver the Internet of Everything and unprecedented new opportunities for businesses and consumers. We're excited about the future." Net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2013 were $36.2 billion, compared with $34.4 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2012. Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2013, on a GAAP basis, was $7.7 billion or $1.44 per share, compared with $6.1 billion or $1.13 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2012. Non-GAAP net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2013 was $8.0 billion or $1.50 per share, compared with $7.5 billion or $1.38 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2012. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income is provided in the table on page 6. Cisco will discuss third quarter results and business outlook on a conference call and webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available athttp://investor.cisco.com. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program During the third quarter of fiscal 2013: "We executed as we said we would, achieving our revenue and profitability objectives," stated Frank Calderoni, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We are moving the business forward by executing on our strategy of driving long-term value to our shareholders." Select Global Business Highlights Cisco Innovation Select Customer Announcements Editor's Note: Click here for the full release &gt; FREE AppDownload
