Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer delivered an undramatic Q2 earnings, with the emphasis on new products, the axing of 30 products that people weren't using, and the promise that from the acquisition of Tumblr, Yahoo's revenues would start growing again … just not this year.Revenues declined 1% to $1.07 billion. She also lowered her year-end revenue guidance slightly (detail on that below).It could have been a lot worse — Yahoo has seen several years of revenue declines, so flat is the new up, so to speak.Analysts, however, were concerned about the effect of "programmatic" ad buying in real-time bidding auctions, which tends to drive down ad prices. They could see the effect of that on Yahoo's media inventory: Display revenue (ex-TAC) was $423 million, an 11 percent decrease. Yahoo did better on search revenue, which increased 5%. Mayer also revealed that she did not expect Tumblr to add any significant revenue until next year.In all, Mayer appears to still be in the process of re-engineering Yahoo to position it for future growth, but that growth is still, unfortunately, in the future.YahooThe live video webcast of Yahoo's earnings.The call was notable because Mayer and CFO Kenneth A. Goldman conducted it in a live webcast video, as if it were a newscast. Mayer looked calm and comfortable in the new format; Goldman not so. And Mayer's desk held up a coffee cup that appeared to be about the size of her head. Here's all you need to know: Yahoo lowered its revenue guidance slightly for the year to $4.45  - $4.55 billion. (It was previously $4.5 - $4.6 billion.) See the chart below. The investor slides can be seen here. EPS: 35 cents. That's a beat. Revenues are $1.07 billion vs. $1.08 billion expected by analysts. That's a small miss. And a revenue decline of 1%. Here's our live blog of the call: Here's Marissa ... it's her 1 year anniversary at Yahoo. She's delivering the call live on video, looking us in the eye via the camera. "We delivered solid revenue ex-Tac, flat year over and year and within guidance." "We're launching a new product every week." She believes in "people then products then traffic then revenue." New products eventually drive ad revenue, she says. Traffic is up! Here's the chart: Yahoo Now we're getting an update on Yahoo's various products and apps. Not much new here. Yahoo stream ads and homepage billboard ads were introduced in May: "In both cases it's still early but the reception from advertisers has been warm." Tumblr users got some updates and storage capacity; no revenue news here though. Wait! "Since the deal, Tumblr's growth has seen an acceleration with a quarter of a million new blogs being set up each day." (Looks like news of the deal created an influx of consumer sampling.) YahooMarissa Mayer uses video to deliver her earnings call.Here's what Mayer looks like on the video (at right). It's going to get interesting when they enter the unscripted section with questions from Wall Street. Yahoo will also host the entire archive Saturday Night Live: "All 38 years," Mayer says. (This is definitely the first earnings call I've ever seen that uses time-lapse photography, in a short piece of video describing Yahoo's turnaround.) Yahoo receives up to 10,000 resumes from people wanting to work there each day, Mayer says. She concludes: "We're deep into the second sprint, the one around products and engagement." She hands over to CFO Kenneth A. Goldman. You can see all the tables here. Goldman says, "We have a lot of confidence in our business but that has yet to translate into revenue growth." Ouch! He hands it back to Mayer — it's like they're reading the news. Mayer says Yahoo will become a mobile company: "Yahoo's future is mobile. We will be delivering our products mobile first." She also calls out Yahoo's RTB and programmatic business: "we can do better in display and this will be a clear focus for the business." Tumblr will ad incremental video revenue, too. It's all about focusing Yahoo on what it does well: "Since last fall we have shut down over 30 under-utilized products and features." Yahoo / Jim Edwards / BIClick to enlarge Mayer's bucket-sized coffee cup.Question time! Here's what that looks like on the video (at right). Note Mayer's MASSIVE coffee cup, which we've highlighted here. It's like watching a newscast or a C-Span show. No money from Tumblr yet: When asked about revenue patterns, Mayer says: "We don't believe Tumblr will provide meaningful revenue this year." (One analyst points out they can now read the expressions on their faces as they talk.) RTB: Another analyst expresses concern that programmatic and real-time bidding advertising is driving down ad prices at Yahoo. Mayer is non-committal but believes Yahoo can handle it; they're investing in the relevant adtech. M&amp;A: "We're going to continue making smaller acquisitions." Mayer says that buys the size of Tumblr will be rare. "Tumblr is the notable exception, we don't intend to do that again with a regular cadence." (She meant to say "occurrence.") RTB again: Yet another analyst question worrying about the effect of programmatic buying driving down premium prices for advertising. Mayer: "We're excited and heartened by the move to programmatic. ... there might be even more pricing leverage to sell fewer ads at higher prices." Interesting snippet: Because some Yahoo properties (such as Tumblr) have infinitely scrolling pages, they count as one pageview even though a user may spend a long time on it. Yahoo has difficulty measuring that, Mayer says. Last question ... search: Somehow, Mayer turns this into a question about Tumblr: "We're seeing more than 75 million posts every day on Tumblr ... we just don't want to screw it up. ... We want to embed advertising opportunities that really enhance the experience." And ... scene! We're done. From the financial disclosures: Yahoo lowered its revenue guidance slightly for the year to $4.45  - $4.55 billion. (It was previously $4.5 - $4.6 billion.) See the chart below. The investor slides are out! See them here. EPS: 35 cents. That's a beat. Revenues are $1.07 billion vs. $1.08 billion expected by analysts. That's a small miss. And a revenue decline of 1%. Here's a chart of ex-traffic acquisition cost revenue (see page 7). Sales at Yahoo are essentially treading water: Yahoo That flatness is actually good news — since 2007, revenues have been in decline, one way or another. Maybe Mayer has stabilized the ship? The stock declined immediately to $26.30, down 2.38%, after hours. Here's a clue as to why the revenue declined when it was expected to be roughly flat. Yahoo said there was a decline in both the number of display ads sold and their price (by 2 and 12 percent, respectively). Yahoo says in its press release: "GAAP net earnings for the second quarter of 2013 was $331 million, a 46 percent increase from the same period of 2012. Non-GAAP net earnings for the second quarter of 2013 was $386 million, a 6 percent increase from the same period of 2012. " Here's what's really driving Yahoo: The investment in China's Alibaba and Yahoo Japan: Yahoo Cash on hand declined by  $1.2 billion, as expected after the $1.1 billion acquisition of Tumblr, to $4.8 billion. The share buyback contines on schedule: "We are happy to announce that as of today we have essentially completed our commitment to return $3.65 billion from our Alibaba Group proceeds to shareholders, repurchasing a total of 190 million shares," said Yahoo! CFO Ken Goldman. "As part of our ongoing commitment to shareholders, we plan to continue to execute against the $5 billion share buyback that was authorized last year, of which approximately $1.9 billion remains. We plan to repurchase shares in open market or privately negotiated transactions." Here's the new guidance chart: Yahoo This was the backdrop to the call: The company was expected to deliver $1.08 billion in revenues, up just 0.1% from a year ago. Today's disclosure caps off CEO Marissa Mayer's one year anniversary of her move from Google. In that time, she boosted morale at the company and made 17 acquisitions, most prominently Tumblr. The stock has been up all year, sitting around the $27 mark prior to the call. But that rise has come in large part due to Yahoo's lucrative holding of Alibaba equity, which could be worth a future $20 billion when it's sold. More immediately, Yahoo needs to convince advertisers of its offerings at both Yahoo and Tumblr. FREE AppDownload
