David Cameron "chugged down" cups of rice wine during a visit to Japan last year, Yoshihiko Noda, the former Japanese prime minister has revealed. Mr Cameron made his first official visit to Japan last year to promote trade and investment. But after dark his time was taken up with knocking back cups of sake with his Japanese counterpart, former prime minister Yoshihiko Noda. Mr Noda, a well-known aficionado of Japanese rice wine, has described how he “chugged down” cups of the famously potent national beverage with Mr Cameron in the confines of the prime minister’s official residence. Mr Cameron was among a number of international politicians outed as former drinking partners by Mr Noda as he addressed MPs from the Democratic Party of Japan launching a group to promote Japanese drinks abroad. "When I was a finance minister, I chugged them down with Treasury Secretary Geithner,” said Mr Noda, according to reports in the Yomiuri Shimbun. “He loved ’Kamotsuru’.” He added: “At the prime minister’s official residence, I chugged them down with British Prime Minister Cameron.” Mr Noda, who was voted out of office last December after just over a year as prime minister, was well known during his tenure for his love of sake, known in Japan as nihonshu. The two leaders enjoyed a sake known as Wakuwaku, brewed by Philip Harper, a Briton who is Japan’s only foreign master brewer. “After an extremely hectic and productive day, Prime Minister Cameron was able to unwind a little at a working dinner with Prime Minister Noda,” Japan’s Ambassador to London, Keiichi Hayashi, said of the meeting. Mr Cameron presented his Mr Noda with a Brompton bicycle, while Prime Minister Noda reciprocated with “some acclaimed Wakuwaku sake”, said the ambassador. “During their dinner, the two leaders were able to confirm for themselves that Mr Harper has indeed been putting his unique talents to good use!” added the ambassador in a blog post. The word Wakuwaku describes a “state of expectant excitement”. Mr Harper has described his brew as “completely unfiltered, rather difficult to handle, and so rare overseas”. The former PM is not alone in his appreciation of Japanese beverages, with a culture of heavy drinking after dark having long been prevalent in business and political circles. “There is a drinking culture in Japan,” said Professor Jeffrey Kingston, the director of Asian studies at Temple University in Tokyo. “In the US and elsewhere, people are much more abstemious. But in Japan, it is not uncommon to drink to the point of inebriation in business situations. “In the world of Japanese politics, you commonly go to bar and bar. Politicians need strong livers. “It is worth noting that this is a society that generally puts a premium on being extremely careful in terms of what you say and how you act. “But in a drinking situation, it is an institutional time out, enabling people to act and speak more freely. It’s not just politicians, but corporate executives too.” Next time Mr Cameron arrives in Japan, however, he is unlikely to receive the same reception, as the current prime minister Shinzo Abe is not a big drinker, according to Professor Kingston. “Abe is different,” he said. “He is unusual for a politician, he very rarely drinks.”  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
