Flickr / spierzchalaIf you want a job in banking, you will need to network. A failure to properly engage and to direct applications to named individuals is one reason why your attempts to land a job in banking may fail.  With this in mind, we’ve provided a non-comprehensive, non-alphabetical, sort of off-the-cuff list of some of the power-brokers in investment banking recruitment globally below. Not everyone is on here: many have been left off (we may yet offer a follow-up). And we cannot guarantee that all or any of them will take your calls, or open your emails, or respond when you try contacting them on LinkedIn. But if you want a job in banking, these are some of the people best placed to help you find one. 1. Amanda Rajkumar, Global head of fixed income human resources at BNP Paribas Amanda has been at BNP Paribas (which has been building its fixed income business and is now hiring in Asia) for several years. Previously, she was a fixed income headhunter for the Rose Partnership in London. If you want a fixed income sales or trading job at a French bank, Amanda is the person to know. 2. Paul Murphy, Director and global head of recruitment for Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) Capital Markets, covering Asia and EMEA Paul joined RBC as head of recruitment in 2004. Previously, he worked in product control for both RBC and Dresdner. Paul is the person if you want a job in RBC’s investment banking arm in London or Asia. 3. Pam Krepchin, Director and manager of lateral recruitment at RBC Capital Markets in New York City Krepchin joined RBC in April 2013, having previously worked as a senior recruiter at Macquarie. Krepchin is the contact for investment banking jobs at RBC in New York. 4. Jim Richardson, Global head of recruitment at Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) Jim Richardson joined RBS as global head of recruitment in April 2010. Prior to that worked in a recruitment role at Credit Suisse at London. 5. Stephen Mitchell, human resources director for Europe and Asia at BGC Partners and Cantor Fitzgerald Mitchell joined Cantor in January 2012. He was previously global head of HR for ICAP. Cantor has been hiring in Europe, making Mitchell a good person to know. 6. Lori Pennay, Senior Managing Director, Global Head of Human Resources and Partnership at Cantor Fitzgerald Pennay has overall responsibility for all people issues at Cantor Fitzgerald. Given that Cantor is expanding globally, she is also a good person to know. 7. Malcolm Horton, global head of recruitment at Nomura International  If you want a job at Nomura outside Tokyo, Horton is the man. He joined Nomura from Lehman in 2008 and was previously a vice president at J.P. Morgan. Unfortunately, Nomura has been making redundancies in its international business and may not be doing too much hiring. 8. Kirsty Howe, head of investment banking recruitment for EMEA at Credit Suisse  Howe is responsible for recruitment in Europe, the Middle East and Africa at Credit Suisse’s investment bank. She joined from UBS in 2010. Be warned, however: Credit Suisse has been de-layering its M&amp;A business in recent months. 9. Michael Cole, director of experienced recruitment for Credit Suisse in Asia  Cole is Howe’s counterpart if you want a job at Credit Suisse in Asia. He moved to Singapore with the bank in November 2012, having previously been chief operating officer for human resources in EMEA. In the distant past, Cole was a trainee hotel manager in Australia. 10. Matt Evans, executive director of experienced recruiting at J.P. Morgan  Evans is one of the most senior members of the experienced recruiting team at J.P. Morgan’s investment bank in Europe. He joined the bank in January 2012, having previously worked for recruitment firm The Omerta Group and in a recruitment role at Credit Suisse. 11. Greg Patel, head of recruitment for Asia Pacific at J.P. Morgan Patel is to Asia what Evans is to London. Having worked as head of recruitment for EMEA at J.P. Morgan between 2004 and 2012, Patel moved to Hong Kong in February last year. Click here to meet the other 15 individuals who can get you a job in banking --&gt; This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
