REUTERS/Adnan AbidiRaghuram Rajan, Reserve Bank of IndiaIndia, the world's second most populous nation, recently made an interesting choice to run its central bank: a University of Chicago business professor who is not shy about giving blunt advice and has a track record to back it up. Raghuram Rajan, who teaches at the U. of C.'s Booth School of Business, will take over as governor at the Reserve Bank of India on Sept. 5. Rajan warned in a speech shortly before his appointment that the U.S. Federal Reserve needs to lay off its monetary stimulus. Quantitative easing isn't working as intended, he said in June in a speech at the Bank for International Settlements in Switzerland. Pouring $85 billion into a stable economy every month, among other "unconventional" policies, is a "step into the dark," he warned. It has the potential to distort investment decisions and encourage excessive risk-taking. He's right. The Fed's bond-buying program could be creating asset bubbles. Those bubbles can do a lot of damage when they pop, as America found out in 2008. Rajan will be responsible for India's economy, not America's. But the monetary stimulus being laid on in the U.S. -- as well as in Europe and Japan -- affects developing countries too. It is, in Rajan's words, an "accelerator pedal for the globe" that could make more sensitive countries expand too fast even as it fails to rev up domestic economies. The Fed has suggested it will taper off stimulus ... eventually. That has sent interest rates higher, and exposed economic problems. Rajan's native India faces rising inflation and slowing growth. Its currency, the rupee, has been sinking fast. A whiff of panic is in the air, and Rajan's immediate job will be to stabilize a shaky nation rich with unrealized economic potential. We hope Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his merry band of money printers listen to Rajan. As is, the Fed's mixed signals are creating uncertainty around the world. The Fed needs to move now to carefully back off the stimulus. As for that track record: In 2005, Rajan presented a paper at an annual economics summit in Jackson Hole, Wyo., that rained all over the sunny economic sentiment that prevailed at the time. He warned that changes in the financial system had exposed the world to large systemic shocks. The prospects were rising for a "catastrophic meltdown" in asset prices -- such as the housing bust that would wipe out the U.S. economy only a couple of years later. Rajan urged action to curb risk-taking in the financial sector. Before Rajan piped up, the conference had been a celebration of outgoing Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's reign. Some grandees in the audience resented the Rajan reality check. Ex-Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said he found "the basic, slightly Luddite premise of this paper to be largely misguided." Donald Kohn, who would become vice chairman of the Fed, argued that a curb on risk-taking, as Rajan suggested, would "result in less accurate asset pricing, reduce public welfare on balance and definitely be at odds with the tradition of policy excellence of the person (Greenspan) whose era we are examining at this conference." Look whose bubble burst. President Barack Obama is expected to name a replacement for Bernanke sometime this fall. Summers and Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen are believed to be the top candidates, though Kohn could get the nod. Let's hope that the worst financial crisis in a generation has taught them all a lesson. Rajan emphasizes strong capital standards for financial institutions and takes a conservative view of the collateral those institutions put up to secure their borrowings. He also pushes for what he calls "prudent regulation." Though the Chicago School of economics generally frowns on government intervention in the marketplace, Rajan contends that deregulation went too far in recent years. That enabled financial powerhouses to promote their interests at the expense of free-market competition. Rajan is taking a leave from his tenured post at Chicago's Booth. We expect his message from India will be the same as it was from Chicago: Sober up. ___ (c)2013 the Chicago Tribune Visit the Chicago Tribune at www.chicagotribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services  FREE AppDownload
