Ever since the economic growth in the USA fell back below 2% on a year-over-year basis, which was in early 2011, there has been talk of below stall speed (the speed, below which an airplane losses lift and falls down to earth) growth and an unavoidable recession. With good reason: Since WWII every time year-over-year growth in the US had fallen below 2%, a recession followed in due course. Well, until now. The recession is now almost 2 years late and still it has not arrived. Why? Perhaps the sub-2% growth is just not sub-stall speed anymore. Rather it could be actually already above the potential growth rate that people have been waiting for since the Great Recession. Yes,as strange as it sounds, the 1.8% year-over-year growth in real GDP in Q1 2013 (illustrated here) might be the best we can expect ... for perhaps the next 10 years. The cause may not be the debt crisis and the deleveraging process, but rather simple demographics. The reason why a recession always followed when growth fell below 2% is probably because the unemployment rate only fell when growth was above 2%. This has been the case since the Department of Labor began tracking the data in 1948, with two notable exceptions: the last 2 years! Advisor Perspectives   Click for a larger image Now why is that? Blame (or thank) the baby boomers. Advisor Perspectives  Click for a larger image In the chart above, the unemployment rate (red line, inverted, so rising line means falling unemployment) can be calculated as: One minus the employment population ratio (blue line) divided by the labor force participation rate (green line) The decline in the unemployment rate that started in 2009 was primarily the result of shrinkage in the labor force participation rate (the green line) rather than growth of new jobs relative to the population (the blue line). Now this trend is usually blamed on people just giving up looking for a job. But I would argue that the speed of the decline in the fourth year of an expansion can't be simply blamed on that and is rather unusual in the long run. Instead, I would argue that the trend is to a large degree a result of demographics. Have a look at the birth rate:Advisor Perspectives Click for a sharper image As you can see, the drop in the birth rate in the mid-1930s during the Great Depression very well corresponded with the top of the labor force 65 years later (the usual US retirement age being 65) at around the turn of the millennium, a time that by some measures could be seen as the peak of the US economy in general, before a decade packed with an unusually high degree of financial and market crises. The baby boom began in 1946, with a sharp top in the chart in 1947, but it wasn't until 1958 that the rate started to fall. Guess what happened 65 years after the 1946-1947 boom, in 2011-2012. For a hint, please see above. The answer for me is one that seems quite unbelievable at first glance: The US is not growing below stall speed, rather it is growing above potential. If the unemployment rate is falling 0.7 percentage points with the year-over-year GDP at 1.8%, the growth rate at which the unemployment rate is stable (which will be the long-run equilibrium) in the coming 10 years must be much smaller than 1.8%. (Perhaps not even positive? Well, just a thought.) Now you could argue that there is a lot of slack in the US economy, so that the growth could be much higher for some time -- until the recovery has erased the underutilization in the economy. Read The Rest Of This Article At AdvisorPerspectives.com &gt; This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
