For Abdalla el-Badri, kingpin of the 12-nation group of oil producers that controls a third of the world’s supply, says that governments increasing taxes on fuel are the main culprits behind higher prices at the petrol pump and not the actual cost of crude oil, which Opec is often accused of manipulating. “The G7, which Great Britain is one of, is generating more revenue from tax on our oil than our member countries,” said Mr Badri in an interview in London with The Daily Telegraph. “They are making more money from taxation, this is the easy target. They can increase taxes and blame Opec and everyone will believe them.” Opec estimates that between 2007 and 2011, members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development earned more than $5.5 trillion (£3.4 trillion) from direct taxation on oil products, compared with $4.2 trillion that Opec producers gained from pumping the “black gold” out of the ground over the same period. That figure does not account for the cost of production either, which in some countries can be as high as $80 for every barrel of crude. Critics of the group of oil producers, which includes such international pariahs as Iran and Venezuela, say that Opec should be broken up and that its grip on the international oil market effectively amounts to a monopoly controlled by a collection of dictators. In the US, the group often finds itself the target of public lobby groups that seek to have antitrust laws applied to its activities. Both characterisations are wrong, according to Mr Badri. “We don’t fix prices: we look at the market, at supply, demand, at the economic situation and also the stocks and then we see if we can satisfy the market at a fair price,” he said. “Unfortunately, we can do nothing about taxes. As they say in America you cannot avoid tax and death.” When oil prices spiked to $147 a barrel in 2008, many industry experts predicted that the world had reached a period of “peak oil” that would see a long-term decline in supply and the cost of oil to skyrocket. About the same time, Arjun N. Murti, the star energy analyst at Goldman Sachs, came out with a controversial call that predicted a “super spike” that would see oil prices hit $200 a barrel and keep rising as demand continued outstripping supply. Such arguments are exaggerated, according to Mr Badri, who has spent his entire career working in the oil industry at every level. He argues that spikes in prices during the past decade were caused by the long-term under-investment in building new oil wells, itself the result of low prices making new drilling unprofitable. “Fossil fuel will end one day. I don’t know when – we don’t see it in the foreseeable future, but one day it will be over. But not at this time, we don’t see it now,” he said. Based on Opec’s own figures, the group’s members have ratcheted up spending on new oil production, with $300bn worth of projects currently in the pipeline. The trouble is that the increased investment has not delivered a significant fall in prices, which Mr Badri argues need to be maintained at, or above, $100 a barrel in order to cover the cost of production and provide revenue. “When the price went down to $10 [in 1998] we did not invest and then suddenly the price went up tremendously and there is where you have a problem. We want a stable investment and supply from Opec and from other sources,” he said. It is in this area that Mr Badri says international oil companies can play an important role in working alongside Opec and its state-controlled national oil companies (NOCs). The group is often accused of promoting resource nationalism, due to many of its countries restricting access for the giant oil “super majors” such as Shell, BP and ExxonMobil. “I think the time has come that we really should work together, because they have the technology, they have the know-how, they have the financial support and I think they can help NOCs in many ways,” he said. The unseen part of Mr Badri’s role as secretary general of Opec is keeping peace within the organisation, a task made tougher by the Arab Spring uprisings . Regular Opec meetings held in the group’s Vienna headquarters, where oil ministers knuckle down to agree on how much oil to pump into the system, are often fraught and full of intrigue with the two biggest producers, Saudi Arabia and Iran, frequently at loggerheads over strategy. “There is difficulty here and there, but not like before when you had Iraq invading Iran, or Iraq invading Kuwait, and decisions which created problems that still live with us until now,” said Mr Badri. “I am lucky that we have good ministers who agree that this is not a political institution, it’s an economic institution and it should look after the interests of our member countries and leave the political situation alone.” Of greater concern to him are sanctions that have constrained oil development in member countries such as Iran, which in turn has helped to push up the price of oil. Oil companies are currently prohibited from dealing with the Islamic republic, which is suspected of using its nuclear energy programme as a mask for developing atomic weapons. Some reports indicate that Iran’s oil exports have more than halved in the past year, from 2.4m barrels a day to 1m, while oil revenues had dropped by $40bn since the beginning of the year. The international oil industry’s hopes that sanctions might be lifted were raised by the recent telephone call between US President Barack Obama and his Iranian counterpart, Hassan Rouhani — the first such dialogue between the two countries for more than 30 years. “I don’t want to see any of our member countries under sanctions. Sanctions are a problem. Lifting these sanctions over Iran will help Iran flourish. They have very educated people, they can contribute to the benefit of the world I have no doubt,” said Mr Badri. Although Opec is directly detached from the oil and gas industry in the UK, whatever the group decides can still have a dramatic impact on jobs and investment in the North Sea and its major hydrocarbons hub of Aberdeen. Indeed, much of First Minister of Scotland Alex Salmond’s thinking on how an independent Scotland could fund itself is predicated on oil, the price of which is largely dictated by Opec’s decisions on production levels. So is Scotland under Salmond swapping economic rule from London for dependence on Opec? Mr Badri believes that the interests of both London and Edinburgh are best served under the umbrella of a single nation. “Myself, I don’t see how England will stay without Scotland and Scotland stay without England,” he said. “This is how we all grew up, with the UK, not with Scotland and England. This has nothing to do with Opec.”  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
