Her resignation followed the worst quality-control problem in Lululemon history. The retailer recalled 17% of its black luon pants for being too sheer in March.  Some of the yoga gear maker's biggest fans called for the CEO's firing after the retailer announced the recall. Carolyn Beauchesne, author of the blog Lululemon Addict, claimed in a post that Day "ruined" her favorite brand.  Beauchesne's blog is a gathering place for women who want to review and discuss Lululemon yoga gear. She once told us that she's spent a total of $15,000 shopping there.  Responding to the see-through pants scandal, Beauchesne explained why many fans of the retailer don't like the CEO:  "Day has ruined everything special about lululemon. The bullet proof quality, the fit, the femininity, the lululemoness of the product," Beauchesne wrote in March. "She is a one-trick pony who grew the company through expansion." Day replaced Lululemon founder Chip Wilson in 2008. Before that, she was an executive at Starbucks.  Many of Beauchesne's commenters appeared to support her vendetta against Day.  "I had more faith in Chip Wilson to appoint someone with a like-minded vision for the company," one commenter wrote. "I'm surprised that he fell for her-she provided short-term eye candy for the investors, but look where it has taken her in the long run." "I do not think Day should stay on, but not all of the blame falls on her," wrote another commenter. "The head of product/manufacturing and head of design must be replaced. Whoever allowed that shoddy fabric, construction and design should be shown the door, stat. They clearly don't understand the brand or the vision." Another popular blogger, who goes by Lulumum, criticized Day's expansion strategy. "I think it's time the board take a very serious look at what the cost of such quick expansion really is, because you are losing us here," Lulumum wrote. "And you are losing integrity while you are at it." Today, Beauchesne tweeted the news that Day was stepping down.  "About time!" one follower responded. Another summarized the move as "for the best."   FREE AppDownload
