Reuters/Eric Gaillard    This post originally appeared in the September 2013 issue of GQ.    Here are a few things Jerry Seinfeld and I have in common: We both wear sneakers far more often than grown men should. We both adore the New York Mets and thus subject ourselves to undue misery. And we both sit quietly for twenty minutes twice a day, attempting to calm our minds. Seinfeld, presumably, is far better at it than I am. He's been practicing Transcendental Meditation, or TM, for more than forty years. I've only recently taken it up. Transcendental Meditation, if you're not aware, is having something of a moment. Despite being 5,000 years old and in the public consciousness at least since 1968 (when the Beatles traveled to India, took up meditating, and were so mind-blown that they wrote the White Album), TM spent most of the past half century out on the hippie fringe. If people thought anything about it, it was that TM was weird and maybe kind of cultish. But a dedicated core of reasonable people have been practicing it all along, and their ranks keep swelling, so TM is now following the path of yoga—another import from India, once marginalized as a trifle for tempeh enthusiasts—into the mainstream, where it can safely be sampled by even self-conscious, risk-averse people like me. "You know how your phone has a charger?" Seinfeld said last year, during an appearance on Good Morning America. "TM is like having a charger for your mind and body." Russell Brand, who says TM helped him stay sober, calls it "a shower for your brain." And gray-pompadoured film director David Lynch—whose eponymous foundation is the driving force behind the recent boom in the popularity of TM in America, converting everyone from Oprah to Rupert Murdoch—says that his twice-daily meditations give him "effortless access to unlimited reserves of energy, creativity, and happiness deep within." But the name that jumped out most when I started looking at TM's fans was Ray Dalio, founder and chairman of Bridgewater, the world's largest hedge fund. Dalio is a superhero of the financial world. And what the 63-year-old has to say about TM—which he started doing forty years ago, in college—is not ambiguous: "I think meditation has been the single biggest reason for whatever success I've had." This from the thirty-third-richest man in America.   The Hottest Women of the 21st Century  The 50 Best Things to Eat and Drink Right Now The Season's Best Wool Ties 9 Things Every Guy Should Have in His Pockets The GQ Hair Guide To Bald Grooming The 6 Shoes That Will Last a Lifetime This article originally appeared at GQ.com.  Copyright 2013. Follow GQ.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
