APHedge fund manager Phil Falcone, who runs Harbinger Capital, has reached an agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Falcone agreed to be barred from the securities industry for at least five years, the SEC said in a release. He also agreed to pay an $18 million penalty.  Earlier this summer, Falcone's initial deal with the SEC had been rejected.   Last summer, the SEC charged Falcone and his Harbinger Capital Partners with securities fraud. Falcone and Harbinger admitted to wrongdoing. Falcone is currently on vacation in the Hamptons, according to CNBC. He said in a statement that he's not closing down and his fund is not going away.   Here's the full SEC release:  The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that New York-based hedge fund adviser Philip A. Falcone and his advisory firm Harbinger Capital Partners have agreed to a settlement in which they must pay more than $18 million and admit wrongdoing.  Falcone also agreed to be barred from the securities industry for at least five years. The SEC filed enforcement actions in June 2012 alleging that Falcone improperly used $113 million in fund assets to pay his personal taxes, secretly favored certain customer redemption requests at the expense of other investors, and conducted an improper “short squeeze” in bonds issued by a Canadian manufacturing company.  In the settlement papers filed in court today, Falcone and Harbinger admit to multiple acts of misconduct that harmed investors and interfered with the normal functioning of the securities markets.  “Falcone and Harbinger engaged in serious misconduct that harmed investors, and their admissions leave no doubt that they violated the federal securities laws,” said Andrew Ceresney, Co-Director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement.  “Falcone must now pay a heavy price for his misconduct by surrendering millions of dollars and being barred from the hedge fund industry.” The settlement, which must be approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, requires Falcone to pay $6,507,574 in disgorgement, $1,013,140 in prejudgment interest, and a $4 million penalty.  The Harbinger entities are required to pay a $6.5 million penalty.  Falcone has consented to the entry of a judgment barring him from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization with a right to reapply after five years.  The bar will allow him to assist with the liquidation of his hedge funds under the supervision of an independent monitor.  Among the set of facts that Falcone and Harbinger admitted to in settlement papers filed with the court: The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Conway T. Dodge, Jr., Robert C. Besse, Ken C. Joseph, Mark Salzberg, Brian Fitzpatrick, and David Stoelting.  The SEC’s litigation was handled by Mr. Stoelting, Mr. Besse, Mr. Salzberg, Kevin McGrath, David J. Gottesman, and Bridget Fitzpatrick.  FREE AppDownload
