AP/Illustration by Mike Nudelman On an overcast Friday afternoon last August, a hundred or so employees of AOL's local news subsidiary, Patch, crammed into a cafeteria at the company's headquarters in Manhattan. Another several hundred connected to the room via conference call. They were waiting to hear CEO Tim Armstrong deliver bad news. The cafeteria's lights were low, and the semi-darkness reflected the mood. So did the body language. People slumped over the cafeteria's tables, shoulders low. They stood around the edges of the room with their arms crossed in front of them. This was Armstrong's second visit to Patch that week. Two days earlier, Armstrong had come to the office and told everyone he planned to honor a promise he'd made to AOL's shareholders to make Patch profitable by the end of the year. He had said he was going to meet with AOL's board of directors the following day to decide on a plan. He had said he would come back Friday to announce it. Jim RomeneskoNow, the gathered Patch employees expected to hear the depressing details: Making Patch profitable, presumably, would involve mass layoffs — layoffs that would probably include many people in the room. Armstrong stood at the front of the room against a white wall, wearing a dark suit and no tie. He began his speech in his usual deep monotone: "There are a couple things I want you guys to realize and really think about and let sink in. And if it doesn't sink in and you don't believe what I'm about to say, I'm going to ask you to leave Patch. I don't mean that in a harsh way, I mean that we have to get Patch to a place where it's going to be successful, and successful for a long time." Armstrong, who had been the first sales boss at Google, is famous for his rally-the-troops speeches. If not for the sense of dread that accompanied it, this one might have been winding up to be another. Heating up, Armstrong talked about how "you can blame me" for everything that has gone wrong at Patch, and "I don't care what the press says." He commanded everyone in the room to fully commit themselves to the company. Then something strange happened. Armstrong interrupted himself to say, "Abel, put that camera down right now." Then, without taking a breath, he said, "Abel, you're fired." For five seconds, the room went silent. Finally, Armstrong started speaking again. He said: "If you guys think that AOL has not been committed to Patch, and won't stay committed to Patch, you're wrong." These were motivational words that ordinarily would have fired up everyone in the room. But they didn't … because, not surprisingly, everyone seemed stunned by what Armstrong had just done. Soon, hundreds of thousands of people beyond the walls of AOL's headquarters would feel the same sense of shock. Patch employees — reporters after all — began leaking details of the meeting almost immediately. Darrell Etherington of AOL-owned tech news site TechCrunch published the first story about the meeting. It said that Armstrong had "fired an employee who took his photo." "Our tipster said the public nature of the termination struck them as 'shameful and disgusting' behavior," Etherington added.  Soon, media guru Jim Romenesko jumped in, identifying the "Abel" who got fired as Abel Lenz, a Patch creative director who had helped redesign the site. Then, the following evening, the story got much worse for AOL and Armstrong. One of the several hundred Patch employees who had dialed into the meeting had recorded the call. This person sent the recording to Jim Romenesko, who published it. Written reports citing whispers from anonymous sources about Armstrong's behavior at the meeting were one thing. A recording of his speech was something else: Raw, alarming, and strange. The recording also revealed an odd juxtaposition. Just before firing Lenz for taking a photo during a confidential meeting, Armstrong had said, "I don’t care if people leak information … leaking information or anything around Patch isn’t going to bother me — doesn’t bother me." The impulsive firing on the heels of this statement made Armstrong sound unhinged — "schizophrenic in his thinking" is how a source close to him later described it. Several days later, Armstrong apologized privately to Abel Lenz and then publicly to AOL employees. But, by then, mainstream outlets including Yahoo and the Daily Mail had picked up the news. Some people viewed the public firing as a bad-ass CEO move, the kind of thing that a famously demanding executive like Steve Jobs or Larry Ellison might have done. But most people across the country and world saw it as gratuitous and humiliating: What's wrong with Tim Armstrong, people wondered? What kind of CEO fires some poor guy in front of all his colleagues? What did this say about what was going on at AOL?  LISTEN: Audio of Abel Lenz's firingAs someone who had frequently covered Armstrong and AOL over the years, I wondered, too.  A few days after the firing I asked one of Armstrong's former colleagues at AOL about it. This person surprised me by saying how ordinary Armstrong's speech was. "This is how numb you get," the executive said. "For Tim, that was actually pretty coherent. On a scale from 1 to 10, 10 being the craziest, that was like a 3 or a 4." That was startling. But it was also only one person's view of the situation. So, over the next month, I spoke to dozens more sources, including several who currently work with Armstrong at AOL. And I spent several hours with Armstrong himself. Through these interviews, I learned the backstory of how Tim Armstrong ended up at the front of that half-lit room that Friday in August. I also understood better why he sounded so uncomfortable at the meeting. And why he fired Abel Lenz. After a depressing 12 years of decline, the industry powerhouse of the 1990's, AOL, is finally stabilizing. Its stock is finally moving steadily higher again. Earlier this week, AOL reported third quarter financial results that beat Wall Street expectations and marked three consecutive quarters of advertising revenue growth. This was a success that several AOL CEOs before Tim Armstrong had not been able to achieve. But Armstrong would not have been able to achieve that success without paying a price. In trying to turn around a huge, collapsing company, Armstrong has had to make many hard, sometimes deeply unpopular, decisions. It was one of the hardest of these that put him in the front of that room last August. In drastically cutting back Patch, morever, Armstrong wasn't just letting hundreds of loyal employees go. He was killing the AOL project that he had been most devoted to, a company that he himself had created. Decisions like these are hard, especially for a highly likable executive who has built his career on his ability to inspire people and build relationships.  That Friday in August, Armstrong was finally making a decision that he had needed to make for a long time. And it was killing him. Armstrong was, in that moment, paying the cost of winning. For so long, it was a price he had never had to pay. FREE AppDownload
