The multimillionaire Barclays executive made his name and his fortune as Bob Diamond’s side-kick in the pre-recession era of huge bonuses and oversaw the ‘deal of the century’ to buy Lehman Brothers. Outside of banking, Ricci loves the races and can be seen there in his trilby and three-piece suit with designer shades. He owns a number of top racehorses based in Ireland, including many that ran at Cheltenham Festival. He is now among the leading jump owners in Ireland along with the long established JP McManus and Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair. And while his fortune has been described as well in excess of £100million, last year he was snapped buying a Euromillions Lottery ticket in a Canary Wharf shop for a shot at the £92million jackpot. The American with the famously apt name, originally from Nebraska, joined Barclays in 2004 and alongisde Jerry del Missier, and was part of the close-knit management team gathered by the former chief executive Mr Diamond that together built Barclays Capital. In his time at the bank he has held several roles. He was appointed Chief Operating Officer of Barclays Global Investors (BGI) and a member of the BGI Executive Committee in December 2002. As chief operating officer of BGI, he helped turn the bank's US-based investment management business into one of the world's largest asset managers. In January 2005, Rich was appointed Chief Operating Officer of Investment Banking and Investment Management, incorporating Barclays Capital, Barclays Wealth and BGI. In late 2008, he took charge of the integration of Lehman Brothers' North American operation after Barclays acquired them in the wake of the US investment bank's bankruptcy. He was widely credited for completing the complex task ahead of schedule and for getting the operation up and running. Rich was appointed Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking in 2009, and assumed his current position in June 2012. Last month he received a £17m share bonus, which he sold immediately . Mr Ricci did not get a bonus for last year after Barclays was fined $450m for rigging Libor interest rates, but is expected to have received £1.5m for last year, including £700,000 in salary and £800,000 in long-term share awards. He will retire from the bank at the end of June . There had been speculation he would not stay at Barclays as new chief executive Antony Jenkins overhauls the bank. Prior to joining Barclays, Ricci held senior front office, finance and technology positions at the Bank of Boston and the Bank of New England. He also holds a bachelor’s degree in finance from Creighton University, Omaha, Nebraska.     This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
