AP With the Dow falling, a lot of people have been talking about a rare sighting in markets: THE HINDENBURG OMEN. The Hindenburg Omen is a technical analysis thing that some people think portends a stock market crash. From Wikipedia: The Hindenburg Omen is a combination of technical factors that attempt to measure the health of the NYSE, and by extension, the stock market as a whole. The goal of the indicator is to signal increased probability of a stock market crash. The rationale is that under "normal conditions" a substantial number of stocks may set either new annual highs or new annual lows, but not both at the same time. As a healthy market possesses a degree of uniformity, whether up or down, the simultaneous presence of many new highs and lows may signal trouble. Theoretically, the Hindenburg Omen could be applied to any stock exchange. However, some minor alterations to the omen might be needed to achieve similar results. And the critera are: According to Jonathan Krinsky, a technical analyst at Miller Tabak, the omen has appeared! In a note that went out to clients just an hour ago, he wrote: The Theory then goes like this:   Two such signals within a 36-day period is consider ed a Hindenburg Omen. The Hindenburg Omen portends a serious decline within the next 40 days . (note: the 36 day period is somewhat ambiguous, as we have seen some say it is a 30 day period, and some say it must be 30 calendar vs. 30 business days). Let’s look at the first “observation” that occurred on April 15 th of this year. 1) NYSE New 52 Week Highs = 70 , New Lows = 77 . Both exceeded 2.2% of total issues that day. 2) The 10 Week (50 Day) Moving Average Was Rising 3) The McClellan Oscillator was negative 4) New 52 Week highs were NOT more than twice 52 week Lows   All 4 criteria were met. Now on Wednesday, May 29 th , we got a second “observation”, which creates the confirmation of the Omen.   1) NYSE New Highs = 58 , New Lows = 104 . Both exceeded 2.2% of total issues that day 2) The 10 Week (50 Day) Moving Average Was Rising 3) The McClellan Oscillator was negative 4) New 52 Week highs were NOT more than twice 52 week Lows For more on today's big fall, see here &gt; FREE AppDownload
