flickr / Steve SnodgrassThe International Monetary Fund is out with its latest quarterly outlook for global GDP growth, and it contains several downward revisions to the estimates published by the Fund in April. The IMF lowered its 2013 global GDP growth forecast to 3.1% from 3.3%. 2013 U.S. GDP growth estimates were revised down to 1.7% from 1.9%. The IMF expects euro area GDP to contract 0.6% in 2013, downgraded from the previous estimate of a 0.3% contraction. 2014 global growth forecasts were revised down to 3.8% from 4.0%, while 2014 U.S. growth was revised down to 2.7% from 3.0%, and euro area growth was revised down to 0.9% from 1.1%. Below is a summary from the report, titled "Growing Pains": Global growth is projected to remain subdued at slightly above 3 percent in 2013, the same as in 2012. This is less than forecast in the April 2013 World Economic Outlook (WEO), driven to a large extent by appreciably weaker domestic demand and slower growth in several key emerging market economies, as well as by a more protracted recession in the euro area. Downside risks to global growth prospects still dominate: while old risks remain, new risks have emerged, including the possibility of a longer growth slowdown in emerging market economies, especially given risks of lower potential growth, slowing credit, and possibly tighter financial conditions if the anticipated unwinding of monetary policy stimulus in the United States leads to sustained capital flow reversals. Stronger global growth will require additional policy action. Specifically, major advanced economies should maintain a supportive macroeconomic policy mix, combined with credible plans for reaching medium-term debt sustainability and reforms to restore balance sheets and credit channels. Many emerging market and developing economies face a trade-off between macroeconomic policies to support weak activity and those to contain capital outflows. Macroprudential and structural reforms can help make this trade-off less stark. The table below details changes to the IMF's forecasts. International Monetary Fund FREE AppDownload
