President Barack Obama has been pretty vocal about what he thinks of the current state of gun regulations—they're nowhere near as strict as he thinks they should be. But his battle for stricter gun laws will be exactly that: a battle. The gun industry is booming. The demand for guns and ammo has never been higher. In 2012, the FBI conducted more background checks on people who wanted to buy guns than ever before.  So are profits. Since Obama took office in 2008, profits for some gun manufacturers are up almost 200%. In 2012, the American industry for guns and ammunitions totaled about $12 billion, according to an estimate by the IBIS group. In 2011, gun companies paid more than $5 billion in federal, state and excise taxes, according to the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a pro-gun organization. This interactive map shows how many people were employed by the gun industry in each state:  With 10,835 workers, there were more people employed in the gun industry in California than anywhere else in the United States. In second place is Texas, which employed 5,986 people in the gun industry in 2012. The Strum &amp; Ruger Co (RGR), a Connecticut-based firearms manufacturer, made  $40 million in profits on sales worth $328.8 million in 2011, according to the company's annual statement. The company's profits are up almost 200% since Obama took office. Smith &amp; Wesson (SWHC), another popular but relatively small gun maker, made a profit of $16 million in from mid-2011 to mod-2012 by selling $411.9 million worth of guns and ammo, according to the company's annual statement. The company's profits are up nearly 140% since Obama took office. This interactive map shows how many background checks of people who wanted to purchase guns the FBI conducted in each state:  There's a reason why the gun industry is so profitable: There's a huge market for them. The number of gun-purchase related background checks the FBI conducts is a pretty good indicator of how many people want to buy firearms. In 2012, the FBI conducted 19,463,832 background checks, according to FBI data. Not surprisingly, the underground market for guns is also pretty robust: 62 percent of private gun sellers would have agreed to sell a firearm to a buyer who couldn’t pass a background check, according to data from an undercover investigation by New York City public officials. This interactive map shows by how much the number of background checks conducted by the FBI increased or fell in each state:  Kentucky saw the highest increase in gun-related background checks, while that number decreased quite dramatically in Utah, and to a lesser degree, in Indiana. FREE AppDownload
