REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannLawrence Summers, then Director of the National Economic Council yawns during a session at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, January 30, 2010.Economists at BNP Paribas have issued a research note saying if President Obama picks Larry Summers as the next Federal Reserve Chairman, he will do serious harm to the U.S. economy. Julia Coronado, Chief Economist for North America at BNP, and her colleagues Bricklin Dwyer and Laura Rosner estimated in a note last week that picking Summers over Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen would shave 0.5 to 0.75 points off GDP growth over two years and cut job creation by 350,000 to 500,000 jobs. Here’s their argument: Coronado and her colleagues end with this sobering observation (emphasis mine): The bottom line is that the policy uncertainty introduced by a Larry Summers candidacy would likely come with an economic price tag in terms of market stability and growth. Nonetheless, the efficacy of monetary policy does not seem to be the driving force in this nomination process and the forces in Washington seem to be moving in the direction of a Summers nomination. That part, I think, is not totally right. Yes, there are major non-monetary factors driving this decision: Obama appears to be driven in part by his desire to install a close and trusted advisor at the Federal Reserve, regardless of policy specifics. And many of Summers’ critics from the left are more focused on bank regulation issues and his past comments on women in science than they are on monetary policy. But Summers also appears to align more than Yellen with the president’s own hawkish monetary policy instincts. When the New York Times asked Obama back in July what he was looking for in a Fed chair, his remarks focused heavily on controlling inflation and preventing bubbles. The president likely shares Coronado’s view that Summers would be more hawkish on monetary policy than Yellen. But he probably sees that as a feature, not a bug. FREE AppDownload
