Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderA new genetic test can reveal whether runners are likely to be able to complete a marathon in a good time. If months of marathon training fails to deliver the kind of finishing times you were hoping for this year, there is no need to beat yourself up - you were not born to do it. Scientists have discovered that to run a marathon in a good time requires the right combination of genes and that nearly a fifth of the population lack this special mix. For runners with the right genes, it means their bodies can quickly adapt to carry large amounts of oxygen to their muscles, allowing them to run faster and for longer. Those who lack these genes, however, will never improve, no matter how much they train, and their performance may even get worse the harder they push themselves. It may help to explain why some overweight runners can go streaking past other apparently fitter competitors. A new DNA test developed by the researchers behind the study could now help tell anyone hoping to achieve a decent marathon finishing time whether their efforts will be worthwhile. Professor Jamie Timmons, head of systems biology at Loughborough University, has found more than 100 genes responsible for determining how the human body responds to stamina training. He and his colleagues have found they can use 30 of these key genes to predict whether someone is capable of running a marathon well. Professor Timmons said: “If someone’s ambition is to do a marathon in a decent manner, we can tell them if they can based on their baseline fitness and their potential for responding to training. “From our work, we know that 20 per cent of people do not respond at all to training and in fact can get worse. They push themselves as hard as everyone else, but their muscles do not extract the same amount of oxygen. “About 15 per cent have the genes that mean they will respond highly to training. But of that number, only those with a good inherited baseline fitness and good resistance to injury will ever become elite marathon runners, so that is an even smaller percentage.” The test works by looking at genes that are responsible for remodelling muscle fibres to allow small blood vessels to grow in between. These help to carry as much oxygen as possible to the muscles during exercise. Those that have the right mix of these genes can grow new blood vessels and remodel their muscles effectively in response to regular intense aerobic exercise such as long distance running. Roughly 20 per cent of the population have genes that do not do this remodelling effectively under the kind of regular high intensity training runners use to prepare for marathons and it can even reduce their body’s ability to get oxygen to their muscles effectively, resulting in a reduction in performance. Anyone falling into this category would be better tto give up on their dream of completing a marathon and turning their attention to a different sport, said Professor Timmons. He said: “It is plausible that by pushing it though training, they get a maladaptation. What is clear is that there is no one recipe that fits all. “These low aerobic responders would be better going to the gym to build up their strength and muscle tissue or taking up other competitive sports like martial arts or strength related sports.” The findings may come too late for those who have signed up to this year’s marathons, with the season already under way and the country’s biggest, the London Marathon, due to take place next weekend. Hundreds of thousands of competitors take part in marathons around the country each year and Professor Timmons has now set up a company with his colleagues at Pennington Biomedical Research Centre in Louisiana and the Medical Prognosis Institute in Copenhagen to offer runners the chance to have their DNA tested. They hope the test, called XRPredict+, will help people decide how hard to push themselves when training. Last year one marathon runner collapsed and died less than a mile from the finish line. An inquiry later revealed she had taken a drink containing a performance enhancing stimulant as she strove to beat her personal best of four hours. For some marathon hopefuls, the intensive training they do to prepare for the race can result in them not taking part at all. Of the 48,323, accepted applicants for this years London Marathon, just 36,000 are expected to start. Roughly 600 of those who started the race last year did not finish while the St John’s Ambulance estimates that it helps around 4,000 runners each year before, during and after the event. Professor Timmons also hopes to conduct new research to understand how the genes he has identified play a role in runner’s susceptibility to injury. He said: “The genes that underpin the development of the oxygen transport system also play an important role in ligaments and tendons as well. “There may be a link between people who respond poorly to this sort of training and susceptibility to injury, but that still needs a lot of work. “We are still early in the life of this kind of use of genomics, but hopefully we will get better at being able to understand how genes determine people’s performance and be able to offer them advice. “This is important not just for those involved in sport for fun, but also from a health point of view – we want to be able to tailor the exercise people are doing so it is right for them.”  FREE AppDownload
