Wikimedia CommonsThe latest industrial production figures for the month of April are out. U.S. industrial production contracted 0.5% after rising 0.3% in March, missing economists' estimates for a smaller, 0.2% decline. Manufacturing production fell 0.4% after declining 0.3% the month before. Economists were looking for a 0.1% increase. Production of motor vehicles and parts fell 1.3% in April. Below is a breakdown of the data across market groups: After having increased substantially in February and March, the production of consumer goods decreased 0.6 percent in April. The production of durable consumer goods moved down 0.8 percent; among the major components of this category, home electronics posted a small gain, but decreases were recorded by automotive products; appliances, furniture, and carpeting; and miscellaneous durables. The index for nondurable consumer goods declined 0.5 percent as a result of a drop of 3.1 percent for consumer energy products. The index for non-energy nondurables rose 0.4 percent, as increases for foods and tobacco and for chemical products outweighed decreases for clothing and for paper products. Over the past 12 months, the production of consumer goods rose 2.4 percent; the index for consumer durables advanced by more than 5 percent during that period, while the index for non-energy nondurables increased only negligibly. The output of business equipment moved down 0.5 percent in April and was 3.4 percent above its year-earlier level. The decline re<U+FB02>ected similarly sized losses for all of the major business equipment categories. The index for information processing equipment declined for a fourth consecutive month after having posted a sizable increase in the fourth quarter of 2012. The production of defense and space equipment decreased 0.3 percent in April following an increase of 0.2 percent in March. In April, the index stood 0.5 percent above its year-earlier level. Among nonindustrial supplies, the index for construction supplies moved down 0.8 percent in April after having fallen 1.5 percent in March; these declines followed four months of solid gains. The output of business supplies fell 1.0 percent in April after having increased in each of the <U+FB01>rst three months of the year. The output of materials to be processed further in the industrial sector decreased 0.4 percent in April as a result of broadly based losses among the major components of this category. The production of durable materials decreased 0.4 percent. Within durable materials, the output of equipment parts edged up, but reductions were recorded by consumer parts and by other durable materials. The index for nondurable materials moved down 0.7 percent; textile materials, paper materials, and chemical materials all posted losses. The output of energy materials edged down 0.2 percent after two months of sizable gains.  Click here for the full release &gt; FREE AppDownload
