Morgan Stanley reported EPS (ex-DVA) of 50 cents beating analyst estimates of 40 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Third quarter adjusted revenue came in at $8.1 billion also beating estimates of $7.659 billion. "Our results point to the increased consistency, strength and balance we are deriving from our business model," James Gorman said in the release.  "Our strategy to combine a world class investment bank with the stability of the largest U.S. wealth management franchise and strong investment management is enabling us to deliver exceptional advice and execution for our clients as well as stronger returns for our shareholders. Overall, our stronger year-over-year revenues and net income reflect the progress we have made to position the Firm well for the future," he added.  Shares of Morgan Stanley are trading up more than 4%  in the pre-market ahead of the earnings release.  Here's an excerpt from the release:  Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) today reported net revenues of $7.9 billion for the third quarter ended September 30, 2013 compared with $5.3 billion a year ago. For the current quarter, income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $888 million, or $0.44 per diluted share,6 compared with a loss of $1.0 billion, or a loss of $0.55 per diluted share,6 for the same period a year ago. Results for the current quarter included negative revenue related to changes in Morgan Stanley’s debt-related credit spreads and other credit factors (Debt Valuation Adjustment, DVA)1 of $171 million, compared with $2.3 billion a year ago. Excluding DVA, net revenues for the current quarter were $8.1 billion compared with $7.5 billion a year ago and income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $1.0 billion, or $0.50 per diluted share, compared with income of $560 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, a year ago.3,7 Compensation expense of $4.0 billion was relatively unchanged from a year ago. Non-compensation expenses of $2.6 billion decreased from $2.8 billion in the prior year primarily due to the absence of non-recurring Wealth Management integration expenses in the prior year quarter. For the current quarter, net income applicable to Morgan Stanley, including discontinued operations, was $0.45 per diluted share, compared with a loss of $0.55 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2012.6 Morgan Stanley Business Overview James P. Gorman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, “Our results point to the increased consistency, strength and balance we are deriving from our business model. Our strategy to combine a world class investment bank with the stability of the largest U.S. wealth management franchise and strong investment management is enabling us to deliver exceptional advice and execution for our clients as well as stronger returns for our shareholders. Overall, our stronger year-over-year revenues and net income reflect the progress we have made to position the Firm well for the future.” FREE AppDownload
