REUTERS/Steffi Loos Pavel Khodorkovsky, son of Russian former oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, speaks to media outside Adlon Hotel in Berlin, December 21, 2013. Khodorkovsky, the Russian oil tycoon jailed for a decade after posing a challenge to Vladimir Putin, was freed by a presidential pardon on Friday and immediately flew to Berlin where he hoped to be reunited with his family. The son of the pardoned Russian oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky told yesterday of the tearful moment when he was reunited with his father, ending a decade-long separation that has defined his adult life. "Actually, you know, I didn't get the first word," revealed 28-year-old Pavel Khodorkovsky in an exclusive interview with The Telegraph. "My daughter just ran out to him. She got the first hug and the first kiss - but that was cool with me." It was the first time that Mikhail Khodorkovsky had met his four-year-old grand-daughter, Diana, and the start of a deeply emotional weekend as friends and family flew into Berlin to be reunited with the man who grew from being a reviled oligarch into a focal point of Russian opposition during his time in jail. "There was a lot of hugging, a lot of thanks," said Pavel. "I certainly knew that it hasn't been easy for him. He knows that he has had a lot of support form a lot of different people across the world, but he knows how much the family has been waiting to see him. He said to me: 'thank you for not giving up on me' which was so important to me." The reunion was made possible by the sudden release of Mr Khodorkovsky senior on Friday, following two years of German diplomacy to broker a deal that – according to rumours circulating in the German media – may have been clinched with the offer of an exchange involving two Russian sleeper agents jailed in Germany earlier this year. Der Spiegel magazine reported yesterday that the deal to free him was brokered by the former German foreign minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who spoke personally with Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, during up to two years of negotiations. Mr Khodorkovsky telephoned the The New Times, an opposition magazine for which he wrote a column from prison, to thank its staff for their support. He told them: "The most important thing today is freedom, freedom, freedom," In a reference to his former business partner, who was also jailed for defying the Kremlin, he added: "A lot lies ahead, the release of those hostages who still remain in prison, first and foremost Platon Lebedev." He is expected to say more today at a press conference called at the Berlin Museum, next to Checkpoint Charlie. Pavel confirmed that his father's release – involving a top secret German diplomatic back-channel that was approved by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel - had come as a complete surprise to the family and the legal team. Mr Putin announced the decision after a press conference on Thursday. "It was a big surprise - to my father as well - because no-one thought it was going to happen," Pavel said. "Once we knew from the press conference we had no idea when or how it would happen. Certainly, no-one knew it would happen so quickly. "He got put on a plane. He got out of there in the middle of the night and he wound up in Germany. There wasn't much room for explanation. It was just pick him up and go. He was woken up in the middle of the night. The prison authorities said 'Wake up, let's go' and he was driven to a plane, and that's it." Pavel Khodorkovsky was settling into business school in Boston in the summer of 2003 when he last saw his father, who knew that when he returned to Russia he faced almost certain arrest. In the 10 years since, Pavel met and married his Russian wife Olesya, and the couple had their first child with one more on the way. Being unable to travel to Russia himself for fear of arrest or harassment by Russian security services, the only contact Pavel had with his father was occasional letters and photos and, more recently, a weekly phone call. But he said: "He hasn't really changed much; he's in great shape he looks very much the same as 10 years ago when I last saw him in person. "He's fit, very energetic. He slipped right back into his working routine. He's trying to get a sense and a hold over everything." After a decade in Russia's unforgiving penal system, the former billionaire boss of Yukos, the now-defunct oil giant, did not crave a particular luxury or a favourite food when he emerged, Pavel said. Instead he preferred to indulge his passion for electronics. "One of the first things he did was get hold of an iPhone and an iPad and start learning. He couldn't wait. He had read about them in prison but never seen one. He doesn't care about food and luxuries, but with the iPad he was, like, 'This is amazing'. "He always loved technology. He was ecstatic and has asked me to buy him a Kindle, so I'm going out to look for one for him in Germany." In an interview with The Daily Telegraph in October, Pavel admitted that his father's decision to put principle before family – above the needs, even, of his own son – had left him with a complicated set of emotions, which he now looked forward to talking through when the time came. "We're definitely going to have those conversations, but later. I don't want to go there now because so much has happened, there is so much emotion." Yesterday he backed up his father's insistence, in a statement released on Friday, that no admission of guilt had been made before Mr Putin issued his pardon. Pavel, who has himself been a fierce and public critic of Mr Putin's human rights record, founding his own New York-based NGO, the Institute of Modern Russia, to promote the cause of democracy in Russia, said: "There are no conditions or anything, however it is common sense right now that my father does not go back to Russia. "I would strongly discourage my father from going back – it's a dangerous situation for him. It was then, and it remains so now." One of his greatest regrets is that his father's imprisonment came just as he was beginning to understand his passion for business, spending the odd day as a teenager at the offices of Yukos. Now, 10 years on, Pavel has his own business in New York making smart-meters and energy-saving software, and looks forward to discussing expansion plans with his father. "He's been actually giving me advice through the years, but now we are able to have a proper conversation, I'm going to be picking his brains a lot, you can bet on that." Pavel was speaking to The Telegraph by phone after giving a brief statement to the world's media outside the hotel where the family is staying. He thanked them on his father's behalf and announced that Mikhail Khodorkovsky would speak publicly for the first time on Sunday at the Berlin Museum, next to Checkpoint Charlie - the former crossing point between Communist East Berlin and the capitalist West. He said he did not expect his father to outline his plans for the future in detail, but that he would try to answer as many of the world's questions as possible. The former German foreign minister, Mr Genscher, was reportedly seen in November at the Valdai Club meeting of diplomats and academics in conversation with Mr Putin. When the deal was approved he called up his friend, businessman Ulrich Betterman, to persuade him to lend a Cessna 525 jet to fly Mr Khodorkovksy from Russia to freedom. Alexander Rahr, who assisted Mr Genscher in the talks and was with him to meet Mr Khodorkovksy on the tarmac on Friday afternoon, called it "a triumph of German diplomacy". He told Russian television: "It was a matter of secret German diplomacy. And thank God Germany still has such closed, or semi-closed, channels which other European countries or America perhaps no longer have with Russia, and which can work in such situations." For Pavel, however, the only concern is that his father is now free, and that he has an opportunity to rebuild a relationship that was snatched away from him on the very cusp of adulthood. "There is so much to day, but for now, I just want to enjoy him being here. This Christmas is literally the best ever, the best to date." Additional reporting: David Crossland, Berlin  FREE AppDownload
