BIG SHOCK: At the last minute the Fiscal Cliff was averted that keeps the Bush-era taxes in place for almost everyone. Stocks are surging on the news. Okay, so yeah, this is not shocking at all. This is how DC does business. But while the outcome is roughly in line with what people expected, what is surprising is that the economic and market impact turned out to be much less than what people were thinking. Back in October, economists like David Rosenberg (and eventually everyone on Wall Street) were passing around this chart, showing a sharp drop in year-over-year growth of business spending. Everyone was talking about how The Fiscal Cliff was already crushing confidence, and that even if we got a deal the damage was done.   Bloomberg, Business Insider But something funny happened on the way to a deal. Nobody actually seemed to care. One of our favorite charts of the entire cycle was this one from Scotty Barber at Blackrock, which compared the VIX to an "uncertainty index." BlackRock This chart needs a little bit of explanation. The VIX (the yellow line) is an options-based index which measures how fearful traders are, by looking at the extent to which they're buying downside protection. The green line tries to measure policy uncertainty by using headlines that are redolent of uncertainty. Over the past decade, the two lines have lines up quite nicely, but that fell apart with the Cliff. The market was never buying the headline uncertainty. Traders just didn't care as much as the talking heads on TV wanted them do. And then it turned out that even that scare chart about business investment didn't matter much. Last month we saw a rebound in business capital expenditures. Bloomberg, Business Insider And that chart isn't a mirage. Since then we've got a host of indicators showing a pickup in manufacturing (Philly Fed, Dallas Fed, and ISM have all looked good. Today's ISM nicely showed a rebound in hiring. So the story turned out to be much less of a deal than we thought. Jefferies' David Zervos has a very Zervos characterization of it all:  In the end, the fiscal cliff will go down in the history books as some laughable combination of Y2K, the end of the Mayan calendar, a Harold Camping video, and a few pages from a Nostradamus book. The idea that a move in top marginal tax rates by 5 percent would send the economy into a tailspin was ludicrous. In the last century, across numerous developed nations, we have seen plenty of strong growth with top marginal income tax rates greater than 39.4 percent. And the academic economic literature has never been able to accurately document strong correlations between top marginal income tax rates and long run growth. So if a bunch of levered traders want to jump on risk assets, and try to push them lower in illiquid year end trading conditions on some faulty set of growth/tax correlation theories, then so be it! They can drive it for a few days, and a few percent, but the whipsaw will be extreme. The reality is that the fiscal cliff was just foundationless noise in the midst of a massive reflationary trend higher for risk assets! That seems really right. FREE AppDownload
