REUTERS/Thomas PeterGerman Chancellor and head of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) Angela Merkel speaks to supporters at a CDU election campaign event in the eastern town of Ilmenau, August 26, 2013. German voters will take to the polls in a general election on September 22. The placards read "We vote for the Chancellor!" (L) and "Keep Cool and Vote for the Chancellor". "Angie" is a nickname of Chancellor Merkel, often used by her supporters.When German voters head to the polls Sept. 22 for federal parliamentary elections, the results might seem to carry profound implications for the future of the euro zone. After all, the sentiments of German voters – specifically, their reluctance to pay for bailouts in struggling euro-zone economies – have played one of the more crucial roles in shaping the euro zone’s response to its debt crisis. With the International Monetary Fund’s recent revelation that Greece will likely need another cash infusion next year, one could easily conclude that Germany’s man on the street won’t simply be casting a vote that will determine the future of his country; he’ll be casting a vote that will determine the future of the European Union itself. In reality, though, there’s little reason to expect radical change. We’re not exactly going out on a limb when we suggest that German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the pragmatic center-right leader who has shaped the response to the debt crisis more than any other European official, will almost certainly stay in power. Fifty-eight percent of voters would like her to remain in office, compared to 27 percent who prefer her primary opponent, the center-left SPD party’s Peer Steinbrück. As such, Credit Suisse’s Senior European Economist Christel Aranda-Hassel told The Financialist that the election is unlikely to have a dramatic impact on Germany’s EU policy going forward. But even though Merkel will likely remain Germany’s leader, her dance partners might change. Though Merkel’s conservative CDU party is currently ahead in the polls, it is unlikely to get enough support to govern on its own, and polls show that voters could shake things up a bit by bringing a new coalition to the Bundestag. In a recent poll, slightly more than half of German voters said that they would like to see a grand coalition with the Social Democrats of the SPD, while only about one-third of voters want to keep the current matchup with the center-right, free-market FDP. Given the vagaries of polling versus voting, that’s a statistical toss-up, and Credit Suisse has said that at this point, Merkel has a roughly equal chance of winding up in coalition with either party. As far as the monetary union is concerned, it probably doesn’t matter all that much with which party Merkel shares power. The German chancellor has repeatedly resisted efforts to mutualize the debts of EU member nations, and a red-black coalition, as Germans call a potential SPD-CDU matchup, probably wouldn’t change that. The Social Democrats of SPD call themselves the “European party of Germany” in their platform, Aranda-Hassel noted, but they also know that despite a desire among most German voters that the currency union stay intact, they aren’t crazy about shouldering responsibility for the debts of their fellow euro members. (A Pew Research poll in May showed that 60 percent of Germans had a favorable view of the European Union and 66 percent preferred to keep the euro, rather than returning to the deutsche mark as the national currency.) “Earlier in the crisis, the Social Democrats (SPD) tried to differentiate themselves from the government by seeming to be more in favor of Eurobonds,” Aranda-Hassel said, referring to a proposal last year to issue new bonds backed by all euro-zone member countries, which Merkel strongly opposed. “They learned the hard way that that has not given them a single vote. And behind closed doors, the SPD would tell you they like the idea, but only if there’s a full fiscal union, which is still a while away. My view has always been that there is not a big difference between one party and the other.” (In fact, the CDU also considers a full fiscal union to be a prerequisite to even thinking about mutualizing debt.) Regardless, EU officials have been anxiously awaiting the end of Germany’s election season so that everyone can get back to haggling about the creation of an EU banking union. There has been some progress on that front, including an agreement to allow the European Central Bank to supervise banks throughout the euro zone starting in 2014. EU finance ministers also have tentatively agreed on a set of standard procedures that every country in the euro zone would have to follow when shuttering failing banks. The plan would allow banks to draw on a permanent EU bailout fund only after getting rid of at least 8 percent of liabilities via haircuts to shareholders and creditors and getting their respective national governments to pony up an additional 5 percent. Even in the lead-up to the election, German officials continue to flex their political and economic muscle, and have already voiced displeasure over the next proposed step toward a full-fledged banking union – the establishment of a single European body that could recommend shutting down a failing bank anywhere in the euro zone. In a July letter to Michel Barnier, the European Commissioner for Internal Markets and Services, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble argued that the proposal overstepped EU law and put too much power in one centralized authority. As the euro zone’s largest economy, Germany would naturally much prefer that individual countries remain responsible for dealing with their own failing banks. Schäuble also said that vesting power in a central European body would require changes to the EU treaty – a time-consuming and uncertain process that could delay or even derail the so-called Single Resolution Mechanism, which the European Commission wants in place by 2015. In addition to a single authority for failing banks, European Union authorities are also seeking more long-term agreement about euro-zone members joining forces to guarantee bank deposits throughout the region. But that, too, will have to wait until the electioneering is done. “The German taxpayer does not want to hear ahead of an election that it is his money that is going to bail out banks elsewhere,” Aranda-Hassel noted. Germany will likely end up ceding ground on the idea of a full banking union because breaking the link between bank debt and sovereign debt is an essential step to ending the European crisis once and for all, Aranda-Hassel said. But she cautions against expecting that process to be accelerated in the event that the mildly pro-Europe SPD enters a coalition government. “Any hopes that a move towards Eurobonds or the banking union could be speeded up (with an SPD-CDU coalition) are likely to be short-lived,” Aranda-Hassell wrote in a recent note entitled “Germany Goes to the Polls.” “The SPD is likely to share the CDU/CSU’s hostility to any banking resolution scheme financed by domestic taxpayers without a German veto…The SPD is also likely to back the CDU on not supporting anything as controversial as a common bank resolution fund or Eurobonds without a treaty change.” The SPD could soften some of the CDU’s more hard-edged views toward euro-zone issues on the margins, however. For one thing, Aranda-Hassel noted, the SPD pays more lip service to encouraging growth, specifically through a light-on-specifics campaign promise to set up a European investment and reconstruction fund. But the one real difference that the SPD could make, Aranda-Hassel said, would be to encourage more economic stimulus in Germany itself. Germans are notoriously enthusiastic savers, and Credit Suisse has said repeatedly that boosting demand in Germany could lift growth throughout Europe. “The Social Democrats are more likely to pump-prime and use fiscal means to pursue growth a little bit more than the CDU,” she said. “So I think it would be healthier for Europe if we get a grand coalition, rather than a repeat of the CDU and FDP.” Whatever happens, it’s highly unlikely that Germany will end up taking a harsher stance on important issues like supporting further bailouts. Support for Alternative für Deutschland (AfD), an anti-EU party that first emerged earlier this year, has hovered at an anemic 2-3 percent – well short of the 5 percent of the vote needed to gain representation in the Bundestag. Still, with Greece once again grabbing headlines, the group could prove to be a spoiler by siphoning votes from both CDU and FDP, making a coalition between the CDU and SPD more likely. If Merkel wins, which she seems set to do, the German elections are unlikely to have significant new implications for the future of the European Union. German politicians are likely to continue to rail against calls for their taxpayers to contribute more to resolve debt troubles in fellow EU countries, only to agree on a compromise in the end. Sometimes power isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. FREE AppDownload
