Now that summer is here and the work grind is finally (hopefully?) starting to simmer down, there's no better time for a mid-year 401(k) check-up. Don't let the bull market get you too complacent with your portfolio. There are no guarantees in the savings game, and as an added incentive, you'll be way ahead of the game when it comes to the end-of-year tax race. To make the job easier for you, we've gathered some tips from the financial experts at Charles Schwab.  Diversify. We know. This whole 'diversify' line is getting old. But it's a crucial part of the game, and as you age, you'll need to rejigger your investments to reflect your risk tolerance. With the recent stock market comeback, you may need to consider rebalancing to get back to your target allocations. If you're unsure, seek advice from a fee-only financial advisor.  Match, match, match. This is a no-brainer. Have an employer that matches your retirement contributions? Do whatever you can to contribute as much as they're willing to match, or you can kiss that free money goodbye. Don't even think about it. Automate your paycheck so that a portion goes immediately into your 401(k) and never touches your hands. Trust us –– it's harder to miss something you never had. Don't over-invest in your employer. The ideal allocation for company stock is between 10 and 20% (and that's being generous). You don't want to load up too heavily on employer stock options, no matter how well they've performed this year. Revisit your fees. New fee regulations on 401(k)s haven't exactly made them all that much more transparent, but that doesn't mean you can't do your own digging to find out if you're getting fleeced. You'll have to dig into your plan documents online, or you can try giving your customer service center a call. Look for a section titled "Expense Ratio." High fees of actively-managed funds are why we are huge proponents of low-cost investment options like an index fund. They are super cheap and have proven time and again to beat the market –– and investment professionals themselves. Luckily, many employer-provided plans include index fund options.  FREE AppDownload
