Flickr / net_efektI used to work with a guy that had everything on the surface, but absolutely nothing inside. The guy was 6 feet tall, good-looking, charismatic, multi-lingual, graduated from a top business school, and had made MD at a bulge bracket investment bank. Yet he couldn’t remember the last time he had a conversation that didn’t involve work because the last 20 years of his life had been a soulless and indiscernible continuum of “yes sir”, number crunching, and small talk.  He was definitely in a mid-life crisis, and it got to the point where I was telling him how to live his life despite being half his age . This man, my friends, was once a human being. What happened? Here’s what happens in non-transparent corporate environments. Everyone starts drinking the Kool-Aid and pretends that wherever they are is the best place in the world, even if all of the evidence proves otherwise. What follows is a slippery slope of sycophancy, buzzwords and pre-packaged opinions that produces employees so afraid of offending management that they stop expressing themselves completely. I get that having a cheerful disposition helps in life but what’s scary is when the individual becomes a permanent “social chameleon” and forgets who they originally were. They spend too much time making a good impression and eventually became stuck in that impression. Look, I’m not saying defy society and live in some tree-house taking sponge baths while “not caring what people think”, because that’s just bad advice. We all do what we have to do- I mopped floors in high school, I did so “just for the money”, and there wasn’t a whole lot of creative self-expression in that job. I am, however, saying that the corporate environment can be an intensely dehumanizing process and if you’re not careful you will slowly lose your personality. So leave the work at the office. Here are a couple of steps you can develop hobbies, regain your life, and become a human being again! For the rest of the tips head to Wall Street Oasis&gt; This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
