Getty Images/Ross KinnairdEric Gleacher on the golf course. Beleaguered advisory boutique firm Gleacher &amp; Co. shut down its investment banking business and hired a chief restructuring officer yesterday.  The firm said in a release  that it had hired Christopher J. Kearns of Capstone Advisory Group to be the company's Chief Restructuring Officer and CEO.  The bank also shut down its investment banking business effective immediately affecting 20 people.  Gleacher said that it's looking into several strategic options, including winding down the remaining operations or a possible merger or sale of the company.  Just days before this news came out, the bank had sacked its entire summer intern class two days before they were supposed to start.   Gleacher was founded by legendary dealmaker and avid golfer Eric Gleacher.  During the 1970s and 80s, he worked at Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley.  While at Morgan Stanley, he advised KKR in their leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco, the famous takeover that was chronicled in the book "Barbarians at the Gate". He founded Gleacher &amp; Co. in 1990.  It was later sold to another firm, but he bought it back in 1999.  He then sold the company to Broadpoint Securities in 2009.  Gleacher, 73, left his post as chairman of his namesake firm back in January of this year.   "We will continue to grow our M&amp;A and capital raising capabilities in line with the vision we have described previously, a vision that Eric helped author. On behalf of the Company, I want to wish Eric the best in his future endeavors," Gleacher's CEO Thomas Hughes said in a statement at the time.   Not so fast.  It has truly been a rough past two years for Gleacher &amp; Co. They have exited businesses, fired hundreds of employees and posted a handful of earnings misses.   Here's a timeline of the events:   Since April 18, 2011, Gleacher's stock has tanked more than 63%.  "I just believe there are more equities and fixed income businesses who cannot reach critical mass and will fold. Margins are terrible and volumes are still shifting to automated venues," a former boutique investment banker, who will remain anonymous, commented.  Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
