Last week, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of "Trading Places," the greatest movie about finance ever made, with an oral history of the film. There are so many unforgettable moments. But we wanted to zero in on what is arguably the most complicated, real-life climax in cinematic history, because a lot of people get confused about what actually happened. Earlier in the film, Mortimer and Randolph Duke, the two corrupt, septuagenarian brothers who run a commodities brokerage house, arrange to get an advanced copy of the USDA's monthly orange crop report. These crop reports are real, and you can find a calendar of them here. The report the Dukes receive indicates extensive damage to the Florida orange crop, due to a hard freeze. So they order their agent to buy a ton of orange juice futures right before the data is officially announced, on the premise that the freeze will cause a shortage of oranges and the value of the contracts to surge. But Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy) and Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) — who has lost his job at the brokerage — catch wind of the scheme, and deliver a fake report to the Dukes. It confirms what they want to hear, that the crop was badly damaged. In fact, the real crop report showed that the freeze wasn't that bad. Not knowing the real crop data, the Dukes plan is to book as many orders for high bids as possible — "corner the market" (which in real life, thanks to new regulations, is now either illegal or extremely difficult to pull off). Let's see how the scheme unfolds: Here's their floor broker, Wilson, set to pull off what he thinks is a foolproof moneymaking trade. He's been instructed to buy Frozen Concentrated Orange Juice futures non-stop until the crop report comes out.  Meanwhile, Winthorpe and Billy Ray will book contracts at a price the floor thinks undervalues how much a given contract is worth. This is also known as short selling.     But they need to time this correctly. They need to get the price to go as high as possible to maximize the power of their short, while still leaving time before the crop report is published to book as many orders as possible. If the price were to actually rise, they'd owe the floor tons of money. But since they know the crop report will show no hard freeze, implying bountiful oranges and lower prices, they stand to make a fortune once the true price is revealed.  Eventually, Winthorpe decides the time is right, and calls out that they are selling contracts for ¢142. Again, the floor will want to lock in that price because they think the report will cause the price to go even higher. Netflix The crop report comes out, the tables are turned. The harsh winter did NOT hurt the crop.  There are plenty of oranges out there, and the price is going to come way down. So now everyone is desperate to sell out of their sky-high contracts. Netflix Winthorpe and Billy Ray now wait again for the price to come back down, to max out the spread between what the floor bought the contracts for initially, and the price at which they can buy the orders back. Netflix Finally, they must also not take the post-report sell orders from the Dukes, to maximally screw them over. Netflix Eventually the price settles at ¢29: Netflix The Dukes are ruined. They were buying all the way up, but the prices in the end collapsed. Netflix And Winthorpe and Billy Ray are the ones who've made out like bandits: Netflix (h/t TradingPitBlog, WiseBread StraightDope, and DangerousLogic for guidance) FREE AppDownload
