Reuters/Srdjan ZivulovicOne investing style seems all on-the-edge flash. The other is slow and steady. Both can win the stock market race, but history shows one wins a lot more often than the other. Here are ways to decide which is right for you. Picture two cars driving down a three-lane highway. A red sports car darts between all three lanes trying to find the fastest possible way ahead. A gray sedan in the right lane steadily goes the speed limit. Suddenly a train whistle sounds and in the distance the barrier arm of the railroad crossing comes down. Despite the best attempts of the driver in the red car, he misses the narrow window and comes to a screeching, hair-tingling halt at the crossing – right next to the gray sedan. The red sports car represents active investing, the gray sedan passive, or evidenced-based, investing. Active investors see markets as inefficient and believe that at any time some securities are priced wrong, enabling these investors to buy or sell at a profit. Professional active investors devote an unbelievable amount of time and resources trying to find that extra edge. They pour over company financials, visit competitors, study the latest economic releases and try to predict everything from corporate earnings to the direction of interest rates. Think of this as the extra wear and tear – and stress – that comes with driving the red sports car, weaving in and out of traffic and stopping and starting suddenly. Passive investors believe markets are efficient and that over the long run the price of stocks and bonds reflect the underlying value of those securities. They do not seek to beat the market but rather use index funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs) that mimic components of the market. For example, rather than try to find that next Apple or Google, they purchase large U.S. stocks or small emerging market stocks in one swoop. Using asset allocation – picking the right mix of each of those slices – they create a portfolio with risk exposure comfortable for them. The gray sedan drives at different speeds depending on the speed limit on any particular road. Data show that passive investing historically outperforms active investing. In the past five years, 75% of U.S. large-cap funds, 90% of U.S. mid-cap funds and 83% of small-cap funds failed to beat their comparable indexes. One reason may be stubbornly unpredictable market surges: Missing even just the top 25 days of market performance over the last 40 years results in you having 3.6 percentage points less per year than if you had stayed the course. For more on active versus passive investing, read The Investment Answer by Dan Goldie and Gordon Murray. Do you want to invest like the driver of the red car and gamble that you might beat the train to the crossing or have a horrible crash along the way? Do you want to invest like driver of the gray sedan, going slower but enjoying better odds that you’ll get where you want to go on time – but you probably won’t be early? Your answer will depend on whether you think markets are efficient and how great your risk tolerance. Follow AdviceIQ on Twitter at @adviceiq.  Manisha Thakor is the CEO and founder of MoneyZen Wealth Management in Santa Fe, N.M. – an independent boutique advisory firm focusing on the needs of high net worth women and families. Manisha regularly shares her financial insights on her blog, and her work has been featured in a wide range of media outlets including The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, The Boston Globe, The Chicago Tribune, MORE and Glamour. She is the author of two personal finance books aimed at women, and often appears as a guest on national television. Manisha earned her MBA from Harvard Business School, her BA from Wellesley College and is a Chartered Financial Analyst This article originally appeared at AdviceIQ.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
