David Tepper, who runs $12 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, was on CNBC's "Squawk Box" making a bullish case for stocks moments ago.  U.S. futures rallied on Tepper's comments during his CNBC interview.   Host Joe Kernen started off by asking Tepper if he's still bullish on the stock market. "Sure, I'm definitely bullish." He used the "My Cousin Vinny" movie as an analogy, the court scene in particular.  (Always a great start). Anyway, he says the evidence is "so overwhelming" and that the economy is getting better. Tepper told CNBC that there's $400 billion in the economy looking for a place to go, according to his calculations.   What's more is Tepper says that the market shouldn't be worried about Fed tapering.  He added, "For guys that are short, they better have themselves a shovel to get out of the grave." He said later in the interview that he's "nervous to be short anything."   Speaking of Fed tapering, he says that if there isn't a true taper, we might look like the last half of 1999. He says June is not a bad time to taper down.  June 19 is the next Fed meeting.   Host Mandy Drury asked Tepper if he's just bullish on the U.S. stock market.  He's bullish everywhere. "I think every place is the place to be," adding that he thinks the tail risk has been taken out. Tepper says that he's long Japan.   Then, Andrew Ross Sorkin brought up the topic of Bloomberg. Tepper looked confused and said, "What?"  He said he took the Bloomberg app off his phone because it "sucks the life out of it."  We think CNBC wanted him to talk about the Bloomberg Terminal spying story. Then, Tepper talked about where he's putting his money.  His biggest holding is still Citigroup.   He said that tech is cheap, but you have to be careful.   "I don't like bonds long term, but good luck.  Good luck."  Again, Tepper is long Japan.  There are folks who think it's going down.  He says, "Stop. Stupidity is running wild." He says they still own their stake in Apple.  They cut a little bit of it, he added.  He said that bought a little bit of the stock below $400.   "I am waiting to hear what they have to say as far as do they have something revolutionary in the horizon or evolutionary...If they don't have something great and fantastic, make a bigger screen for goodness sake."   He said if they don't do either we've got a problem.  "It's like Houston, we have a problem."  He told CNBC they have a "small position" in JPMorgan. However, he wouldn't comment on the breaking up of Jamie Dimon's CEO/Chairman role issue.  He said generally speaking that's something they support, but he didn't make that comment particularly for JPMorgan.   He said the housing market is in what feels like "an early stage recovery." "I think the only thing holding it back...is to get the people back in the labor force."  He says it's not going to go back to where it was, nor should it. He brought up "My Cousin Vinny" again for an analogy for the housing market.  Perhaps we should watch that film again.   Tepper, who has one of the best long-term track records, came out earlier this year as being super bullish. He told Bloomberg TV in January that the U.S. was on "the verge of an explosion of greatness." He was the highest paid fund manager last year and his fund was up 30% in 2012.  FREE AppDownload
