NewseumHe's back. Eliot Spitzer is done with the wilderness and wants to be the next Comptroller of New York City. He'll probably win. And fortunately for those of us who live in New York City, he'll probably be good at it. The city comptroller has three main responsibilities: overseeing the city's employee pension systems (among the largest in the country), issuing debt, and auditing the city's finances. These are important roles, especially given the extreme stresses that New York City's budget is under today: New York City government has a cost structure that is uncompetitive, unsustainable, and unprepared for economic risk. Legacy costs are crowding out the city's ability to invest in infrastructure and draw in new and diverse businesses. These are exactly the sort of issues that the city comptroller should be raising the alarm about. Unfortunately, New York City Comptroller has historically been a job for Democratic machine politicians of little distinction who hope to use the job to get elected mayor. Seven of the office's eight last occupants have tried to get elected mayor. All but one have failed. If you're a machine politician trying to use the comptroller job as a springboard, you can't be too aggressive in your role as an auditor, less you alienate one of the constituencies you need to back your run for mayor. Comptrollers are captured, and they haven't been promoting the reforms they should be. Of course, Spitzer probably wants to run for mayor, too. But his path to the mayor's seat would be different from the usual comptroller's. He's an outsider who doesn't owe anything to the city's unions, contractors, health care interests, real estate investors, or anybody else. He has a public profile that will rival the next mayor's, whomever that is. And he isn't a mediocrity. Spitzer told The New York Times yesterday that he intends to broaden the role of the comptroller, by auditing not just the city's finances but the effectiveness of government policies overall. In other words, it sounds like he intends to set up a shadow mayor's office. Given the mayoral administration that we're likely to get with any of the front-running candidates — lacking imagination and hemmed in by tight fiscal and political constraints — a prominent shadow mayor could be very useful. Spitzer showed good instincts on cost-effectiveness issues as governor. As Stephen Smith notes, he was one of the few New York State politicians who even tried to rein in the boondoggle of World Trade Center reconstruction. That effort was cut short by Spitzer's resignation from the governor's office. Spitzer wasn't any good at actually working with the legislature to address the problems he identified, which is a reason to worry that he wouldn't be a good mayor. But city comptroller, like state attorney general, is a job that would suit Spitzer's analyst-and-pitbull instincts well without requiring him to actually lead an administration. One risk is that Spitzer could use the comptroller's office as a vehicle to rebuild his national profile, using the city's pension investments as an excuse to be an activist investor. Spitzer likes to sue people and there are a lot of people you can sue when you run one of the country's largest pension funds. That wouldn't do much to serve the interests of New York City residents. But to the extent Spitzer trains his fire on issues within the city's boundaries, he's likely to add a lot of value. Welcome back, Eliot. It's going to be interesting. FREE AppDownload
