Revenue and EPS were above expectations. The stock was volatile after-hours. As of right now, it's up over 4%. Click here to refresh this post. Here are the numbers: Here's the full Q3 2013 guidance from the company: Revenue is expected to range between $367 million and $373 million. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to range between $81 million and $83 million. The company expects depreciation and amortization in the range of $38 million to $40 million, and stock-based compensation in the range of $49 million to $51 million. The second quarter proved to be successful for LinkedIn. The company grew its membership to 238 million, as growth accelerated to 37% year-over-year. LinkedIn says this membership growth was driven by: product optimization, and represents the first membership growth acceleration since the third quarter of 2011. CEO Jeff Weiner said that the acceleration in growth was a by product of a number of different optimizations that the growth team has put into place that are now coming together and having compounding effects. There were some mature regions where the company expected growth to not increase as much as it did like southern Europe.  Weiner said that LinkedIn's long-term goal is to create economic opportunities for the 1.3 billion person global workforce. The company wants to continue to scale its platform and provide, "the kinds of products and services that will generate opportunities for those people." Besides membership growth, LinkedIn also added big-named professionals to its Influencer Program. These experts in their field included, Bill Gates, Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Jamie Dimon, and Burberry CEO Angela Ahrendts. Investments for this quarter that will trickle into future quarters include: data centers, the company's pulse team, and expanding its footprint. Here's the earnings press release:   Also, here is a look at the company's condensed consolidated balance sheets:  Stay tuned, we'll update this post with more information shortly. FREE AppDownload
