Of all the shady practices employed by mortgage lenders, few are as cruel to underwater homeowners as dual tracking. In a nutshell, it's what happens when one arm of a lender works with a borrower to modify their mortgage, while a completely different arm pushes through paperwork to have them foreclosed simultaneously. Imagine getting kicked out of your house one day, then getting a letter in the mail congratulating you on your shiny new mortgage rate a month later.  It's no fun, and finally, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is making good on its promise to keep it from happening again. The agency rolled out a host of new rules Thursday that will change the way lenders deal with borrowers. Here's our favorite:  Restricted Dual-Tracking: Servicers must not make the first notice or filing required for the foreclosure process until a mortgage loan account is more than 120 days delinquent. This will give borrowers reasonable time to submit modification applications. Servicers must not start a foreclosure proceeding if an application is pending for a loan modification or other alternative to foreclosure. For borrowers like Minnesota resident Carrie Haskamp, the change is too little too late, but it will undoubtedly make a difference for struggling homeowners down the line. You can read a full list of the new mortgage servicing rules here. Here are the Cliff's Notes:  -When borrowers miss two payments, lenders must inform them of what actions they can take to get back on track.-Lenders have to make sure borrowers have direct and easy access to the humans handling their paperwork.-Lenders can't foreclose on homeowners willy nilly. They have to consider all foreclosure alternatives first.-Lenders have to reply to mortgage modification applications at least 37 days before they plan on selling the home at auction.-Clear mortgage statements-Fair warning before lenders mess with interest rates for adjustable-rate mortgages -Notify homeowners before they force them to purchase costly property insurance  -Lenders must credit mortgage payments the same day they're paid-Lenders must correct any account errors within 30 days, or at least investigate. SEE ALSO: These are the 10 best places to live if you want to lose weight &gt;  FREE AppDownload
