Screenshot via BloombergTVIt had seemed like a done deal —  billionaire hedge fund manager Marc Lasry would be ambassador to France. Even Bill Clinton was liberal with the information, confirming the news for Politico. But earlier this week Lasry told his investors that he would not be heading overseas. He gave no reason, but the The New York Post's Kaja Whitehouse and Jennifer Gould Keil report that he had to give up the position because of his ties to a Russian Mafia gambling ring busted last week. Earlier this month, the FBI charged more than thirty people in an illegal gambling, money laundering, and extortion scheme tied to Russian organized crime, according to a federal indictment. Those named ran the gamut from a Russian national who was accused of fixing the Salt Lake City Olympics to the NYC-based heir to an art dealing empire, and their alleged gambling and extortion ring spanned from L.A., to NYC, to Moscow. Authorities allege that the organization hosted high-stakes poker games frequented by Wall Streeters, pro-athletes and Hollywood stars. No names of financiers were mentioned in the indictment.  However, according to the Post, Lasry had a "close friendship" with Illya Trincher, 27, who was named in the indictment.  From the Post:  Lasry, 53, turned down the post only days after the White House asked the FBI to probe whether he was tied to anyone involved in the criminal enterprise, sources said. His name surfaced in FBI tapes probing the matter as a person who likes to play in exclusive high-stakes poker games, sources said. Because ambassadorships require Senate approval — normally a pro-forma step — Lasry faced the prospect of being grilled about the ring. To be clear, Lasry hasn't been accused of any wrongdoing.  He didn't comment for the Post's piece.  A source familiar tells Business Insider that Lasry withdrew from consideration for the ambassadorship for basic business reasons.  The source said it was becoming clear that he would have to divest himself of his holdings in Avenue and his interests in the funds. The source said the Post’s characterization of Lasry's decision to withdraw as being prompted by "ties to an alleged Russian mob-run poker ring" was "ridiculous." The source said Lasry has certainly has played poker with friends and others for recreation, but such participation is legal and he has received no contact from anyone involved in the investigation of the matter. FREE AppDownload
