Julia La Roche for Business InsiderInvestors are gathered at Lincoln Center in Manhattan Wednesday for the highly-anticipated 18th annual Sohn Investment Conference. Some of the world's top hedge fund managers shared their investment picks and views at the event that benefits the treatment of pediatric cancer and other childhood illnesses.  The speaker lineup included, Kyle Bass (Hayman Capital), Jeff Gundlach (DoubleLine), Bill Ackman (Pershing Square), Jim Chanos (Kynikos), David Einhorn (Greenlight) and Paul Singer (Elliott Management), just to name a few. Below is our live-blog of the conference. "To call all of the countries I metnioned insolvent one has to accept that long term entitlement programs are... debt." Reducing these obligations has been virtually impossible in these countries. They are contractual and legislative.  But now governments need to come up with progrowth policies themselves. The problem is an absence of political will. "At what point...does confidence in the management of the countries and the money disappear?" Especially we're going to confront these entitlement obligations that are "utterly unpayable." It's fueling class warfare and its a "poisonous atmosphere." "This is one of the sad elements of this distortion." He thinks DXM's equity will be trading 5x more in three years.&nbsp; He showed "Japanese Finance Minister Index" in one of his first slides. That got a laugh from the audience.&nbsp; Bass showed an illustration of Haruhiko Kuroda with a slide saying there's a "new sheriff in town." &nbsp;He says the quantitative analysis is done in his opinon. &nbsp;He says it's a question of when, not if. &nbsp;&nbsp; Bass thinks the beginning of the end for Japan has already begun. &nbsp;He gave a timeline of zero to three years. &nbsp; He doesn't have a slidedeck.   He especially likes infrastructure assets. He also wants to invest in companies that can take advantage of today's low interest rates. Lastly, he likes consolidating industries. An indsutry that plays into all those themese are data carriers. And we can see that the theme in this space is that as economies scale, these businesses are consolidating. They're roughly the same size, stock price. Level 3 is overleveraged, TW is under. TW executes well and is a predictable story with predictable returns. Level 3 is more high risk. Both have "great assets and great scale." As for TW, 80% of revenue comes from carrying data. He loves that bc it's an axpanding business.&nbsp; $TWTC has grown revenue for 34 straight quarters, churn is less than 1%. They'd love that. Also, consider that these are fixed cost businesses, so if you merge you lower those costs. Ultimately, TW is a $38 value, says Meister. His price target for Level 3 $34 "now that the balance sheet isn't in question"  Pershing Square owns almost 30 million shares of P&amp;G.&nbsp; He said they think it's one of the "great businesses" in the world. &nbsp;He said it's vastly under-earning relative to its intrinsic earnings power.&nbsp; He says P&amp;G has strong brands. &nbsp;He pointed out that the company has emerging market exposure. &nbsp;He said it's probably the biggest emerging market company in the world. Ackman says that the company has talent, too.&nbsp; He said the other board memberships suck up about 25% of McDonald's time.&nbsp; He also hates Bernanke's monetary policy.  He think we're now at the end of a big super cycle that started ten years ago. The boom was weird, the downturn makes more sense. You want to own companies and currencies that don't depend on commondities and you want growth over value. His presentation is called "Housing: A Tale of Two Countries." U.S. v Canada.&nbsp; He's extremely positive on U.S. housing. He says the anticipate EPS to grow significantly over the next several years. &nbsp; "To me, it's perhaps the most powerful counter intuitive play on housing." &nbsp;He added that it's the "most levered way" to play housing. &nbsp; The key &mdash; cash flow, he says.&nbsp; He's talking about the structure of Canada's mortgage market.&nbsp; Eisman is comparing Canadian v U.S. housing prices. &nbsp;An increase in housing prices in Canada cannot be explained by a growth in personal income, he says. &nbsp; He said Canadian banks have been hard at work expanding mortgage credit. &nbsp; He said Canadian banks run a very large domestic funding gap of $426 billion.&nbsp; He said the CMHC and NHA securitization market have filled this gap. &nbsp; "When something gets that big, even governments get nervous," he said. &nbsp;Now banks have to fund mortgages on their own and they're no longer guaranteed, he added. The lending practices of the boom have made them even riskier. He believes there's been wide-spread fraud as borrowers under report their living expenses and lenders are complicit in this. Retailers are offering unsecured credit to bump up sales as well. However, they experience cred deterioration faster than banks. Some retailers are beginning to see this already, while Stiemerman believes the rest of the country's credit is just about to turn. He called Paul Singer a Piker! He says that hard disk drive manufacturers appear "cheap", but are "value traps. &nbsp;He cited Western Digital and Seagate Technology.&nbsp; He says the Thailand floods created unsustainable hard disk drive profitability.&nbsp; He says there are accounting issues. &nbsp;The No. 3 guy Bob Whitmore, the CTO, left the company last night. &nbsp; The company he's short is Digital Realty Trust.&nbsp; It trades at $68.50/share.  Then the banking panic happened, Roosevelt blamed the economic crisis on bankers and he spent like crazy in his first 100 days. "The country needs and demands bold and persisitant experimentation," he wrote.  Kind of like how the EU experimented with Cyprus, Gundlach points out. And he thinks Cyprus could happen again. "Like the Lusitania was just one boat." This isn't so much strange, but what he DOES think is amazing is the rise of the ETF. Also, he says, T Bonds are not over owned.  The high end, he points out, is killing it, while the bottom is suffering. However, drilling is only 5% of precorporate EBITDA for OIS. It also has a completion services business which basically preps sites for drilling (making the safe etc.). OIS has great products in the market and 40-50% of its rental tools are proprietary or patented. There's also a tubular services business (casing and production), where it is a market leader. But this business drags down the value of the company as a whole, Einhorn believes, and is one of the reasons the market values it.  FREE AppDownload
