APRep. Alan GraysonRep. Alan Grayson (D-Fla.) lost $18 million in an investment fraud scheme that cheated him and other investors out of approximately $35 million, the Associated Press reports. A spokesperson for Grayson confirmed Grayson was a victim of the scheme late Monday night. William Dean Chapman, the Virginia man who was at the head of the scheme, was sentenced to 12 years in prison for the scheme.  The AP details how it worked (or was supposed to): The scheme worked like this: clients would turn over their stocks to Chapman as collateral for a loan, and Chapman would let customers borrow about 90 percent of the stocks' value. If the stocks did badly, borrowers could walk away and keep the money they were loaned. But if the borrowers' stocks did well, they would repay the loan with interest, and Chapman was supposed to return the stocks to the investor at their increased value. But, according to court papers, Chapman sold the stocks and had no way to fulfill his obligations if a client's stock portfolio did well. Grayson's spokesperson explained how he fell victim: "It's my understanding that the congressman's investment portfolio performed exceedingly well. But when it came time for the defendant to pay what the congressman had earned, he didn't. He had sold the Congressman's collateral without his permission, and then because he had sold it, it wasn't there to return to the congressman when his loans matured.The defendant's lawyers tried to claim that was the spectacular performance of Grayson's stocks that rendered him unable uphold his financial obligations to his clients, but prosecutors found that he was using the money to fund his own expenses." Court papers reviewed by Business Insider indicate no wrongdoing on Grayson's part, signaling that he was an unknowing victim of the scheme. This isn't the first time that Grayson has fallen victim to a fraud scheme. In 2009, he won a $34 million judgment against a company called Derivium Capital, which ran a version of a Ponzi scheme against him and other investors. Grayson is consistently among the Top 25 wealthiest members of Congress, ranking 21st on this year's list from Roll Call.  FREE AppDownload
