REUTERS/Brian Snyder“This time is different.” The mere mention of the phrase is enough to send cold shivers running down the spine of investors who’ve lived through more than one economic cycle. The last time it was rolled out was during the Internet bubble, when it was used to rationalize the ever-higher valuations of the stocks of dot-com companies that hadn’t earned—and never would earn—a single cent in profit. With interest rates creeping higher once more after several years of lingering near multi-decade lows, the traditional rules of investing suggest that this is the moment to join the crowd and start unloading shares of hardline retailers such as Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and Home Depot, or of those businesses whose revenues are tied to the automotive industry. It’s an old and proven relationship: When interest rates rise, “consumer cyclicals” suffer, as higher borrowing costs erode both consumers’ spending power and their desire to borrow money for a new car or house. But sometimes, it really is different, and this is one of those occasions. This isn’t the normal kind of environment in which the Federal Reserve begins to raise interest rates to cool down an overheated economy. Because of that, argue a group of Credit Suisse analysts, the traditional response simply isn’t appropriate. This is “not your grandmother’s economic cycle,” the analysts argued in a June report of the same name. In this particular cycle, they said, rising rates do not point to an economy on the verge of cooling down. Because of that, they suggested, it is no time to sell hardline retail and automotive stocks. It’s undeniable that rates on everything from 30-year mortgages to 10-year Treasury notes are rising. As Federal Reserve policymakers have begun to talk openly about tapering off their bond buying program and ending the prolonged period of ultra-low rates, a kind of panic attack has swept through both stock and bond markets. In a “normal” cycle, high or rising interest rates would be a sign that monetary policymakers believed a period of expansion was getting long in the tooth and that they needed to be less accommodative with credit to stave off inflation. In that circumstance, it’s quite sensible to use rising rates as a signal to flee rate-sensitive stocks, a broad group that includes not just hardline retailers and automotive dealerships, but also housing and any other “consumer cyclical” business that relies heavily on consumers being willing and able to spend. This time around, though, the economy isn’t even close to overheating: Inflation remains a concern only for those pundits looking far into the future, while economic growth is anemic. Indeed, the economic recovery from the crisis of 2007/2008 still seems to be in its early stages, as is that of the housing market. The national unemployment rate lingers at 7.6 percent, far from the 6.5 percent target the Federal Reserve has said it wants to see before hiking the federal funds rate. And while rates have risen of late, they still remain well below pre-crisis levels. Nor does it seem likely that the Fed’s $85 billion monthly purchases of mortgage-backed securities and Treasury bonds, which help keep interest rates low, are likely to end anytime soon. Credit Suisse has predicted that won’t happen until the middle of next year. In their report, Credit Suisse analyst Gary Balter and his colleagues advised investors to overlook historical tradition, and focus more on the still-bullish outlook for an assortment of retailers ranging from Home Depot and Bed Bath &amp; Beyond to “do-it-yourself” automotive companies, such as Advance AutoParts and AutoNation. In overreacting to the Fed’s noises of tapering, the market has created bargains for investors who are able to appreciate that there is a difference between a classic interest rate cycle and the one that we are in today, Balter suggested. Not even the recent strengthening in the U.S. dollar puts a dent in this outlook: Many of these cyclical retail stocks are focused on the domestic market, meaning that they should outperform relative to companies which do a great deal of business overseas, where a strong dollar would make American imports less attractive. Clearly, interest rates aren’t irrelevant to either the housing market or the automotive market; the cost of credit is one of the most important factors shaping demand. But the market hubbub may be overdone. As recently as May, sales of existing homes recorded their highest monthly reading in six years, excluding the period leading up to the expiry of the homebuyers’ tax credit in November 2009. Moreover, the median sales price of a single-family home rose 15.4 percent in May over the same period in 2012, the biggest jump since before the financial crisis and the accompanying collapse of the real estate market. Indeed, rising home prices have put a bigger dent in housing affordability than have interest rates. And even though homes have gotten more expensive this year, the Housing Affordability Index ­– which the National Association of Realtors calculates each month based on the relationship between median family income, the median home price and current mortgage rates – remains at multi-year highs. Back in 2010, when the index was last at its current levels, interest rates were more than a full percentage point higher than they are now. Balter and his colleagues suggested that lenders taking a more conservative stance in the wake of the housing crisis could pose a bigger problem for the real estate market than the cost of credit itself. There’s another point, too: retailers that focus on home improvement may at first glance seem more exposed to the housing industry – and thus, rising interest rates – than they really are. True, the purchase of a new house can send a proud homeowner scurrying off to Home Depot in search of paint or new kitchen cabinets. In practice, however, existing homeowners are just as likely to splurge on those new cabinets as are recent buyers. In fact, Balter argued, home improvement-related sales and profits are tied more to smaller-ticket purchases, from espresso makers to pricey gas grills, for homes people already own. That’s why, in his view, consumer confidence is more important than new household formation in generating growth for businesses that cater to homeowners. Meanwhile, many cyclical retailers are enjoying positive trends in their business that outweigh their interest rate exposure, and will continue to do so if the economy continues to expand and consumer confidence keeps growing. For instance, a recent rebound in light vehicle sales, which rose 9 percent in June, will create demand for automotive service that should boost both do-it-yourself auto companies and dealerships. Credit Suisse also noted that people have been driving more, so even those car and truck owners who are not prepared to invest in a new vehicle will need to spend money to keep their existing vehicles roadworthy. That’s great news for car dealers, which Balter said generate 40 percent of their gross profits from servicing cars, rather than selling them. Their ranks include AutoNation (which Balter has just upgraded, and whose debt analysts at Moody’s Investors Service are reviewing for a possible boost to investment-grade status) and Lithia Motors, an automotive dealership network, which announced a 31 percent jump in first-quarter profits this spring, beating analysts’ expectations and raising its earnings outlook for the year. In this kind of environment, the interest rate debate is just a sideshow. In the end, for investors able to look past the turmoil that followed the Great Bernanke Scare and shrug off preconceptions about what kind of stocks they “should” own during a period of rising interest rates, it may well prove an opportune time to consider cyclical retailers. We believe this time is different. FREE AppDownload
