Secular Stagnation — Not What It Is Meanwhile, the nattering nabobs of negativity are dominating the headlines. It’s incredible. I debated Larry Summers in late 2011 over whether the U.S. economy was following Japan, and I was in that camp at that time and Mr. Summers was in the land of green shoots and escape velocity. Notwithstanding what the stock market has done, as Ben Bernanke pulled a Potemkin of classic proportions, the economy actually did struggle as I predicted. But I realize now that, no, it is not going to be Japan all over again. And Larry Summers has replaced me on the dark side, and now conjures up 1930’s terminology such as “secular stagnation” and the need for negative interest rates (so I guess he now believes we have turned Japanese, after all). We are not at all suffering from secular stagnation. What the economy has had to endure is a balance sheet adjustment process of epic proportions. Go back to that weak 2001-03 recovery that was held back by the post-tech-collapse reparation of overleveraged corporate balance sheets. The consensus view heading into 2004 was that the economy was never going to recover — what a surprise it then was to see the opposite and the Fed embarking on a tightening program in June of that year. Go back further to the banking sector financial repair that held back the recovery in 1992-93. Again, terms like “structural headwinds”, “jobless recovery” and “credit crunch” abounded. Then look at what happened in 1994. So fast-forward to the present. Of course the economy has been weak. But it is not because of any “secular stagnation”. It is because, yet again, we had a recovery held back by intensive balance sheet repair — but in two critical sectors, not just one: the household and the federal government. The consumer has taken its aggregate debt/disposable income ratio down from 124.6% at the 2007 peak to 100.9% today, where it was a decade ago (down to 95% excluding student loans, an 11-year low). Gluskin Sheff In other words, the entire massive 2002-07 credit expansion has been reversed, and as such the household sector is in far better financial position to contribute to economic activity. This is underscored by the broad improvement in credit quality ratios (outside of student loans) as total loan delinquency rates have been cut in half to 5% over the past five years. And the federal deficit, 10% of GDP just four years ago, is below 4% today and on its way to below 3% a year from now, largely on the back of tough spending cuts and a big tax bite (this is not just about the Fed’s interest rate program though that too has helped). Very few countries around the world have accomplished this — Greece and Ireland come to mind, but the United States did not have to destroy its economy to accomplish this incredible fiscal improvement. Growth slowed for sure, but let’s face it — we never faced the 1937-38 moment, and that is news in its own right. Gluskin Sheff Then throw in the vast improvement in the balance-of-payments situation, courtesy of the energy revolution. With oil import volumes trimmed 5% over the past year and oil export volumes up a resounding 30%, the petroleum deficit in real terms has been shaved by one-quarter in just the last twelve months. This in turn has dragged the current account deficit in half to below 3% of GDP from the nearby high of 6%. The prospect of the U.S.A. entering into a class that is occupied by no more than eight countries (none in the G7) today in terms of enjoying “twin surplus” status on the fiscal and current account front within the next five years is far from remote, and nurturing this backdrop will ultimately require entitlement reform, but the political landscape going forward can only improve —- the best thing FDR really did for the country was die so early into his last term — triggering the twenty-second constitutional amendment in 1947 (two-term limits for presidents; now if only that also applied to Congress as well!). Gluskin Sheff Gluskin Sheff In a nutshell, I feel like 2014 is going to feel a lot like 2004 and 1994 when the economy surprised to the high side after a prolonged period of unsatisfactory post-recession growth, as reparation of highly leveraged balance sheets delayed, but in the end did not derail, a vigorous expansion. That by no means guarantees a stellar year for the markets because as we saw in 2013 with a softer year for the economy and as for the markets, multiple expansion premised on Fed-induced liquidity can act as a very powerful antidote. Plus a rising bond yield environment will also at some point provide some competition for the yield delivered by the stock market. While 1994 and 2004 were hardly disasters, the market generated returns both years that were 10 percentage points lower than they were the prior year even with a more solid footing to the economy — what we got more in terms of growth we gave up in terms of a less supportive liquidity/monetary policy backdrop. But make no mistake, the upside for next year from a business or economic perspective as opposed from a market standpoint is considerable, in my view, and while it is open for debate as to how the stock market will respond, it is not too difficult to predict where bond yields will be heading (up) since they are, after all, cyclical by nature. Within equities, this means caution on the rate-sensitives and the macro backdrop will augur for growth over value. This article originally appeared at Gluskin Sheff.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
