REUTERS/Luke MacGregor Support for Ukip has fallen by a third after its popularity rose following council elections last month, a new poll has revealed. Although Ukip has fallen by six points, the party still remains a force to be reckoned with on 12 per cent, three points above its previous highs until the sudden rise last month. The poll means the party, led by Nigel Farage, is level-pegging with the Liberal Democrats, whose popularity has increased by a single point from last month's level of 11 per cent. Labour is in front on 36 per cent, up two percentage points on the month, with the Conservatives up one percentage point on 29 per cent, according to a Guardian/ICM poll conducted in June. The combined score of other smaller parties is 10 per cent, which is made up of 8 per cent for the combined Scottish and Welsh nationalists and 2 per cent for the Greens. Both major parties are losing trust on the issue of handling the economic slump, although David Cameron and George Osborne maintain a nine-point lead over Ed Miliband and Ed Balls as the most trusted team for economic management, the Guardian reported. When voters were asked in December last year to put aside party preference and say who could manage the economy properly, 35 per cent preferred Cameron and Osborne and 24 per cent opted for Balls and Miliband. Now those respective figures are 28 per cent and 19 per cent, with a majority of 52 per cent either say "neither", "don't know" or refuse to answer. Labour has not polled well on economic competence since Gordon Brown lost power in 2010, but the party has fallen below 20 per cent on this score for the first time with ICM - which comes a week after Balls and Miliband made big speeches about the need to contain elements of public spending. The Tories fell even more sharply - at the start of last year, 46 per cent trusted Cameron and Osborne with the economy, falling to 35 per cent last December and has now fallen again to below 30 per cent for the first time. In terms of party unity, voters appear to have registered the months of Tory infighting at the end of last year, 62 per cent voters believed Cameron had the backing of his party, compared to 29 per cent who disagreed. Now only 44 per cent believe that while 45 per cent disagree. Miliband fares better, with 65 per cent voters believing he is backed by his party against 20 who disagree, a 45-point gap in his favour. when it comes to how voters see each party leader being 'good in a crisis', Cameron scored well on this count in December 2011 - 50 per cent said he was good in a crisis and only 40 per cent said the reverse. In December 2012, Cameron was still rated as good in a crisis by 48 per cent in December 2012, compared with 44 per cent who thought he was not. But in the latest poll, only 37 per cent of voters say his crisis-handling skills are good, while 52 per cent think they are not, meaning a fall of 15 percentage points. By contrast Miliband has always struggled on this test of leadership - by double-digit margins voters have always refused to believe he is good in a crisis and his position is not improving, the Guardian reported. Only 29 per cent of voters now think Cameron "understands people like me", as opposed to 65 per cent who disagree, with the prime minister's Eton background continuing to create a perceived gulf with ordinary people. Miliband has tended to do less badly on this issue, but by 46 per cent to 41 per cent voters also say he fails to understand them.  FREE AppDownload
