Wikimedia CommonsLast week I posted a piece on a particular hedge fund’s research[1] from 18-months ago, and then I went on to praise that hedge fund, with 20/20 hindsight, for nailing it, in terms of understanding the Great Recession, and why it’s taking so long to recover from it. In response, in my inbox today I received a notification that SCRIBD, the document posting service, had complied with a request to take down the research piece. And then I received this: —–Original Message—– From: “Michael J. Bales” &lt;Michael.Bales@BakerMcKenzie.com&gt; Sent: Tuesday, August 28, 2012 5:52pm To: info@bankers-anonymous.com Subject: DMCA Takedown Notice: Bridgewater Associates Deleveraging Studies From: Michael J. Bales &lt;Michael.Bales@BakerMcKenzie.com&gt; Subject: DMCA Takedown Notice: Bridgewater Associates Deleveraging Studies Message Body: Dear Sir or Madam, Pursuant to 17 USC 512(c)(3)(A), this communication serves as a statement that: 1. I am the duly authorized representative of Bridgewater Associates, LP, the exclusive rights holder for the work entitled “Deleveraging Studies”; 2. These exclusive rights are being violated by the wholesale copying of this article at the following URL: http://www.scribd.com/doc/103650057/Bridgewater-Deleveraging-Studies, and a link to this URL is provided in a blog post on your website at: http://www.bankers-anonymous.com/blog/first-prize-for-a-great-recession-framework-bridgewater-associates/#_ftnref1; 3. I have a good faith belief that the use of this material in such a fashion is not authorized by the copyright holder, the copyright holder’s agent, or the law; 4. Under penalty of perjury in a United States court of law, I state that the information contained in this notification is accurate, and that I am authorized to act on the behalf of the exclusive rights holder for the material in question; 5. I may be contacted at Baker &amp; McKenzie, 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036, via email at Michael.Bales@BakerMcKenzie.com, or at (212) 626-4810. I hereby request that you disable access to this material as it appears on Bankers Anonymous by removing the referenced link in as expedient a fashion as possible. Sincerely, Michael J. Bales Associate, Baker &amp; McKenzie LLP   I also got a series of individual requests by people who wanted to get access to the research, but couldn’t download it before SCRIBD took it away in compliance with Bridgewater’s request. Anyway, just another reason to be annoyed by hedge funds. Even when they’re right, and you praise them, they don’t want you to have the information that they have. [1] The fund’s name rhymes with “Trig’s Mother” Post read (473) times. This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
