But is China’s more leisurely rate of economic growth really so dangerous? Short answer: no. Credit Suisse’s Economics Research and Global Strategy teams, led by Chief Economist Neal Soss, analyzed the impact China’s slowdown could have on the global economy in an early August note entitled “The North Atlantic Outweighs China.” They reached a rather surprising conclusion: The improving economic picture in the U.S. and Europe will have more of an impact on global growth trends than the tepid data coming out of China and Asia. The analysts also don’t foresee a significant further slowdown in China’s growth ahead, and the release last week of positive economic data, including a surprisingly large 10 percent increase in industrial production, underscored that forecast. One of the biggest reasons a slower-growing China gives market-watchers pause is that the country of 1.3 billion people absorbs an enormous amount of the world’s exports – China’s gross imports account for 2.9 percent of world GDP, compared to 3.6 percent for the European Union and 3.8 percent for the United States. When such a large appetite for goods and services flags, one might expect other economies to bear the brunt of it. But when you consider China’s imports in a different way – a more integrated global supply chain means that many countries, particularly China, simply import components of a product, assemble it in a factory and then re-export it to another country for further work or sale – the numbers change dramatically. China’s value-added imports – in other words, the portion of total imports that stay in China and are sold to Chinese customers, rather than those that are assembled and re-exported – accounted for just 1.7 percent of total global GDP. That’s about half the value of the U.S. or European Union’s value-added imports and just 50 percent larger than Japan’s. “Domestic demand in the U.S. and EU matters much more than Chinese demand on a global scale,” analysts wrote. Think about it like this: The iPhone is counted in official statistics as a Chinese export, because final assembly of the phone happens in China. In fact, China’s assembly work adds only $6.50 of the $178.96 value of an iPhone 3, with imported components from Japan, Germany, Korea, the U.S. and other countries making up the rest. So exports that are credited to China arguably belong to those other countries that made the components. Even China’s neighbors rely more on shipping goods to the United States than to China on a value-added basis. Only about one-third of total exports from non-Japan Asia to China stay there, analysts noted. Who should be concerned about those that do? German exporters, for one, given that Germany accounts for more than half of the euro area’s exports to China. But even they don’t seem overly concerned. That could be because the worst is over – while the year-over-year growth rate of German exports of capital and transport goods, which make up the bulk of the country’s shipments to China, tumbled from 50 percent at the end of 2010 into negative territory earlier this year, in recent surveys, Germany’s export expectations have been stable. “If something more serious were happening in China, we would expect to see it in evidence in Germany,” analysts argued. “But it isn’t… The bulk of the slowdown in this component of German exports has already happened.” Of China’s regional trading partners, Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore have the most exposure to weakening Chinese growth. In Latin America, Chile has the most exposure to Chinese value-added imports, while Australia, Japan and Germany top the list of developed countries that send the most value-added exports as a percentage of GDP to China. But again, the bulk of the pain has already been felt. “The slowdown in Chinese export demand is already well advanced,” the analysts wrote, adding that strong demand in 2009 and 2010 owed a great deal to the Chinese government’s large fiscal stimulus program.Fresh economic data certainly seems to support the view that a further dramatic slide is not in the offing. Chinese imports of crude oil, iron ore and copper all rose last month, as did industrial production, though Credit Suisse’s China economists Weishen Deng and Dong Tao only saw the good news as a sign that the economy is stabilizing, rather than a major rebound. Still, the economics and strategy analysts noted that China should benefit this year from the improving health of the U.S., Japan and Europe, which together buy up 40 percent of China’s total exports. “Improving economic momentum in these major trading partners can certainly help stop the slump in Chinese exports and hence support growth,” the analysts wrote. As China’s economy matures, its leaders are increasingly eager to speed China’s transition from an export-dependent economy to one that relies more on domestic consumption. And the news on that front is encouraging. Both urban and rural household disposable incomes are growing at an impressive rate in real terms at 6.5 percent and 9.2 percent so far this year, respectively. Soss and his team pointed out that the Politburo has made improving living standards and stoking consumer demand an official goal, and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang has said that government could implement a stimulus program if GDP growth slips below 7 percent this year. Officials have already implemented other small reforms to juice the economy, including reducing taxes on small businesses and scrapping a floor on the rates banks can charge borrowers for loans. Credit Suisse said the Communist Party’s third plenary session in October may not bring a huge fiscal stimulus, but the party might cut some of its own “inefficient” spending to make room for new infrastructure projects sponsored by the central government, which in theory would promote more economic activity. Finally, some observers have been concerned about whether China’s credit boom could pose a systemic risk. “China’s credit-to-GDP ratio has increased by 53 percentage points in four years – one of the fastest peacetime credit expansions ever seen in a major economy,” Credit Suisse analysts noted. “History suggests such a credit expansion can end very badly, especially when it finances overcapacity, which appears to be the case for China.” The rapid development of China’s “shadow banking” sector, or lending by non-bank financial intermediaries such as trust companies, which are not as tightly regulated as banks, has raised concerns. So has the practice of banks selling wealth management products that offer higher returns than traditional deposit accounts, but often back riskier business loans that do not appear on bank balance sheets. In what was seen as an effort to crack down on non-traditional lending, the Chinese central bank recently cut off the flow of liquidity in China’s interbank lending market, sending the rate banks charge each other to borrow money skyrocketing. Since then, banks have been more cautious about lending, particularly through the sort of off-balance-sheet credit vehicles, such as trade bills, that fund many small and medium-sized businesses. Credit Suisse analysts believe that China can avoid a full-on credit crisis, thanks in no small part to the fact that they don’t forecast a dramatic decline in growth. China clearly needs to deleverage and address non-performing loans, analysts said. Banks have already started to scrub such loans – though exactly how much they have done is unknown. Local governments in China have also run up massive tabs for local infrastructure projects, and economists and ratings agencies such as Moody’s Investors Service have been increasingly concerned about their ability to pay it back. But current fiscal reforms, including a thorough audit of local government debt announced in July, are also intended to “centralize budgetary decisions and discipline local government borrowing behaviors,” the Credit Suisse analysts explained. The first reaction to the rise of China was all about the positives—evidenced by the swooning excitement about an enormous new market for foreign companies to penetrate. We’re now seeing the second, which is concern over what kind of negative effects the new economic giant might wreak on the rest of the world should it run into trouble. But the reality is that in value-added terms, China’s economy just isn’t yet as important to the global economy as those it seeks to displace. A continued economic recovery in the North Atlantic matters much more than China’s move in the other direction. FREE AppDownload
