One month left, December Level 1 candidates! How are things going? I remember this all too clearly when I took my first CFA exam back in December 2009 (unluckily for me, 300 Hours still wasn't around then). The stress, anxiety and constant studying has started to tire me down, especially with a full time job. It doesn't help that the final month is all where the knowledge gets properly tested and things get more intense! In the interest of brevity, here are 8 concise pointers to take note on to utilise your last month effectively to maximise your chances of passing the exams. #1 - Are you on schedule with your study plan? Follow the 1 month game plan, this is what every candidate should be doing now. #2 - You NEED to master ethics. Here are some helpful tips on how to do that. #3 - Knowledge is an advantage for the CFA exams. Learn from others' mistakes, get the latest CFA Results Analysis for a detailed topic-by-topic breakdown of all the historical Level 1 performances, Minimum Passing Scores, and what you should watch out for. #4 - Study effectively, this means higher absorption and understanding of the material per unit of time. Try out different study places and observe your ability to focus, stick to the ones that you can concentrate best, switch to something new once you get tired of it for a boost. #5 - Boost your motivation - devise an incentive and reward system that works for you. #6 - Take good care of yourself. Eat nutritiously to nurture concentration and cut out processed, sugary food. Take the occasional break, catch up with friends or go for a run - these reduce stress and you'll come back refreshed and raring to go! Most importantly, improve your sleep quality to make up for more intense study sessions. #7 - Do practice exams like crazy, preferably timed to simulate exam conditions. How many is enough? A good rule of thumb is to complete for 4-6 sets of practice exams in the last month. #8 - Take a break, have a laugh to take the pressure off! As much as we love to hate the CFA exams, try to be patient when innocent family member or friends try to be encouraging and all will be over soon! If you love a good moan, drop by the 300 Hours Community.  FREE AppDownload
