Bloomberg has released the first excerpts of Joe Scarborough's debate with Paul Krugman on the deficit and debt, which the latter says didn't go very well. In the first bit, Scarborough challenges Krugman on whether he thinks the U.S. should make any spending cuts in the next decade: SCARBOROUGH: “So you don't think we have to make any cuts whatsoever over the next decade.”  KRUGMAN: “I don't think we have to. If the economy recovers, we could start doing some cutting.  But we don't have for the next decade, right?  We don't have to.  We will eventually have to deal with health care costs.  We'll eventually have to deal with the costs of the programs we want.  But there is no urgency -- and 'no urgency' means not this year, not next year, not in the next five years, and arguably not in the next ten years.  And that's -- again, that's -- that's more or less what Ben Bernanke said, right?” In the second bite released by Bloomberg, Scarborough tells PBS' Charlie Rose that there should be immediate action on Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security to reduce the deficit. ROSE: “What would you do immediately to deal with the debt?” SCARBOROUGH: “You want to get the parties talking.  You want to get the White House.  You want to get Congress talking, and talk about what it — what's going to have to be done to address Medicare, to address Medicaid, to address Social Security, which is less of a problem, and my belief is — my concern about the crisis, like Bob Rubin said, you know, you never know when the crisis is going to hit.  My concern is that if we ignore all of these problems and we push them off for 10 years, we increase the likelihood of those crises.  I've said repeatedly on my show as well if we send the message that we're willing to do the responsible things, we're willing to make the tough choices, we're willing to ask Americans to sacrifice in the long-run to keep the entitlement program solvent.  I think that sends a strong message to the world markets, and I think that delays any possible crises.” The debate will air tonight on PBS at 11 p.m. ET, and we'll be providing live coverage. Bloomberg will also air it tomorrow night at 8 p.m. FREE AppDownload
