Recent data continue to point to signs of an improving recovery in the UK. What is particularly encouraging is that the latest manufacturing PMI survey suggested rising optimism about exports; questions could still be asked about the balance of growth, but if there are now signs of improving exports this adds to the case for the optimists. The eurozone is no longer quite the concern it once was and that is probably helping, but the real scope for sustainable export strength lies outside Europe and our historic traditional UK export markets. Sustained strength in exports will probably happen if our companies can penetrate the markets in the far-flung world of the so-called BRIC economies - Brazil, Russia, India and, of course, China - and other large emerging markets. I discuss this in a short book I am soon to publish and I have also been travelling extensively in the past couple of months for a BBC radio documentary I am making about some of the emerging economies beyond the BRICs: Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey. They could become known as the MINTs. It has become highly fashionable in the financial world to focus on the signs of economic slowing in some of these well populated economies. Many commentators believe that these countries have very troubled futures as a result of their challenges. While there is no denying the challenges for many of them – the Russian authorities reduced their own estimate of long-term growth potential to 2.5pc – I think it is a quite different thing to conclude that they will necessarily slow down persistently and offer much less potential. It often seems to me that many commentators still don’t quite get the scale at which the world has already changed, a focus that I discuss at the start of my new book. The “slowdown” in the BRIC economies is for real, but since the end of 2010 their combined GDP has still risen by around another $3.5 trillion, not far off the equivalent of the size of Germany’s. Taking them collectively, they have increased by more than $15 trillion, creeping closer to the size of the US economy. Throw in the MINTs and a couple of others and you get up to $20 trillion quite easily. When our Chancellor and others meet their opposite numbers at future G20 meetings, they should be lobbying for more bilateral meetings with them – not the other way around. Within this group, China is, of course, special, and I devote a chapter to the “new” China, which is going to be more about the quality of growth than just the quantity. Nonetheless, by the end of this year, China will probably be larger than $9 trillion and, even at its slower rate of 7pc to 7.5pc, China is going to be adding around $1 trillion per year to the world’s economy. At $9 trillion, it is more than half the size of the US these days, and is actually close to the size of the rest of the BRICs and MINTs put together. On Friday, China announced an official end to the one-child policy – they have been experimenting with reforms in some areas in recent years – and, more importantly, confirmed they will phase out the “hukou”, or migrant worker registration system, in smaller cities and towns. I believe both are important for growth, especially the latter, as it will give these people more confidence to be part of a growing, shared economy and consume. This means there will probably be better opportunities for the likes of the UK – more so than those countries that have benefited so much from the last generation of Chinese growth, which was principally based on its prominence as an exporter and state-driven investment economy. Now there are signs of an improvement in UK relations with China – George Osborne visited last month and David Cameron will travel there next month – I believe we are better positioned to see accelerated export growth to China. As for the other emerging economies, some have more challenges than others. Of those that I have travelled to recently, despite their challenges, their growth prospects would be the envy of most of the so-called developed world. Turkey, for example, remains under some clouds due to the government’s heavy-handed approach to the summer protests, but this should not be translated into a view that the Turkish economy is finished. I found very little evidence of that from my week-long trip and meetings. Turkey’s burgeoning middle classes and their exceptionally well-located geography for modern trade growth gives them plenty to keep them going. In Mexico, there is a commitment to genuine, powerful supply-side driven economic reforms that I have rarely encountered in more than 30 years of finance, which are set to unleash a period of greater prosperity. Indonesia, from where I have just returned, is fraught with massive challenges related to infrastructure and governance, but, having met a number of influential people, I think it is probable steps will be taken to rise to the challenge. More than 240m people there are itching for more. As I also discuss in the book, we and our European allies can do ourselves a favour in two other areas. We need to be prepared to give up some of our joint dominance of world economic governance to allow these countries the space their growing power warrants and get better global decision-making – even if that would be difficult and different. Without doing this, we might not get the relationships we need to solidify rising trade relations. In addition, as much as we want many of them to do things “our way”, there are some things that we can learn from them. I spent some time with the leadership of Turkish Airlines, which, I believe, now flies to more countries than any other airline in the world. I’m sure there are things the UK can learn in terms of the interplay between the airline’s goals for expansion, the necessary airline infrastructure to support it and the trade ties that relate to the country’s goals. In China, while many of their largest banks and other financial entities face colossal challenges, one doesn’t encounter the “them versus us” mentality that still seems to prevail here, although the efforts of the Bank of England Governor, Mark Carney, to declare that we are open for business is a welcome step to change this mood. I find myself continuing to be more cheery about the world and opportunities, and it is comforting to see that starting to become more and more evident in the data and mood of people in our own country. Jim O’Neill is the chairman of the City Growth Commission. His new book is available at www.londonpublishingpartnership.co.uk/the-bric-road-to-growth  FREE AppDownload
