Remember the caution from two weeks ago about disorderly liquidity conditions and how these can feed onto themselves?  Well, they unfortunately became reality. Triple digit moves in the Dow for every single day but one came with losses on virtually all financial instruments. Also, worrisomely, the price moves were accompanied by dislocations in underlying liquidity conditions, raising genuine concerns about longer-term market damage. The fear, and it is a genuine one, is that nasty and disorderly market technicals could resume and persist until the point of natural exhaustion. This would imply evenlower prices, more capitulation by dealers and over-levered investors, and generalized selling by those lacking cash buffers to deal with fund outflows. Moreover, with asset class correlations unusually high, traditional diversification would provide little risk mitigation unless accompanied by tail hedging (which has now become more expensive). Investors are not the only ones who would be harmed by such a potential phase of prolonged technical dislocations. Policymakers and businesses would also be impacted:  the longer these technical dislocations persist, the greater the likelihood that they would undermine the real economy. So we should all welcome the relative tentative calm that prevails in markets this morning. If it persists, it would help counter the vicious cycle involving higher volatility, risk parity de-leveraging and risk reduction among intermediaries. Over time, it could also moderate outflows from mutual funds. Today’s circuit breaker is linked, albeit precariously, to a perception among some market participants that central bankers in the US and China may be starting to show signs of walking back on their more hawkish narrative. It also helps that the data for U.S. durable goods orders for May came in better than expected. This double play – of stronger data and less anxiety about the policy-driven liquidity paradigm – is essential for maintaining market tranquility. The hope is that, having re-priced in a rather disorderly manner, markets can regain their footing. The valid worry is that market tranquility may just invite selling by those that were sidelined in prior trading sessions by both price action and liquidity shortfalls. FREE AppDownload
