You’re off to the annual Christmas dinner party hosted by your boss and his wife, and agonising over a tributary bottle of wine. What do you choose? Tried-and-tested Bordeaux? A top-scoring Château Latour 2009 perhaps? Or a bottle of South Australian Wolf Blass? Chances are you go for the safe bet. But if your boss knows anything about quality and value for money, he should promote you just for bringing the latter. According to the results of the 2013 Master Blend Classification blind-tasting event, judged by 30 of the world’s most-respected wine critics, Australian fine wine is now officially just as good as French. The competition pitted 30 of the world’s leading Cabernet Sauvignon-based blends at three separate events held in Montreal, London and Melbourne. The results were surprising. After blind-tasting 900 glasses, four joint winners were drawn: three Bordeaux and one Australian wine, each scoring an average of 92/100 points. The top-ranking wines were: Château Léoville-Las Cases 2009, a second-growth Bordeaux; Château Latour 2009, a first-growth Bordeaux; Château Ducru-Beaucaillou 2009, also a second-growth Bordeaux; and, in equal ranking, the Wolf Blass Black Label 2009 from South Australia. What distinguished the wines was their price. The cheapest Bordeaux at A$575 is quadruple the price of the Wolf Blass at A$139. By comparison, the Latour would set you back by A$2,400, 17 times more expensive than its Antipodean rival; while the Château Léoville-Las Cases is A$675.  Of course, when it comes to the price of fine wine, taste is not the only determining factor. The world’s best vintages are increasingly being used as a safe-haven investment, particularly in fine-wine’s fastest-growing market: China. And Old World wines have a better record than New World vintages when it comes to tracking their potential for yield. Debra Meiburg, an award-winning Master of Wine, commented that the price difference between the Australian and French winners was drastic, but it comes from more than just snob factor. “However unreasonable the price disparity may seem, much of it stems from the difference between the wines’ value as economic assets rather than as vehicles of pleasure. The long track record that Bordeaux has as [making for] collectable and tradable assets simply hasn't been achieved yet in the New World; the fact that these wines have achieved the same score in a blind tasting is validation of the quality of Australian wine, but sadly doesn’t have much to do with their economic value.” Canny investors may jump at the chance to buy Australian fine wine before the records are set and headlines are printed. The French may have mastered ‘La Vie En Rose’, but those red-blooded Aussies are the ones to watch.  This article originally appeared at Billionaire.com.  Copyright 2013. Follow Billionaire.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
