Wikimedia Commons On Wednesday, the German Constitutional Court will hold a public hearing on the legality of the European Central Bank's "outright monetary transactions" (OMT) program. The OMT is a program announced last summer that gives the ECB the ability to backstop government bonds, provided said country agrees to oversight and reforms. Remarkably, the ECB has yet to actually engage in any outright monetary transactions. However, as ECB President Mario Draghi put it in a press conference on Thursday following the central bank's latest decision on monetary policy, "OMT has brought stability, not only to the markets in Europe but also to the markets worldwide." As such, people are talking about this week's court hearing. Société Générale interest rate strategist Ciaran O'Hagan asserts that there is "much concern over what damage talk at the German constitutional court might do." "In the 29-page Buba report leaked last April, there was some choice criticism of the ECB’s powers by the Bundesbank," writes O'Hagan in a note to clients. "A speech along the same lines by Mr Weidmann would hurt peripherals, and that is the key near-term threat." Arguably, the biggest issue on the table is whether OMT impinges on the German constitution. Deutsche Bank's Europe economists provide a pretty good overview of the subject in their latest note to clients: This week's events only entail a hearing. The actual court rulings will likely come later in the year. "We are fearful of what Mr Weidmann will say now, but we do not expect the German court to rock many boats over the coming months," says O'Hagan. "Indeed, by Europeanising the ECB’s interventions, the court could end up strengthening the ECB’s powers." And, once again, one of the remarkable aspects of this story is the fact that OMT has not even been activated yet. "The more serious issues for investors are whether the ECB is at all serious about OMT and whether it will ever act on all its talk," says O'Hagan. "For now investors have blindly accepted the ECB’s talk at face value. But what if they think that the emperor doesn’t have enough clothes? That is a more real threat to [euro area] peripherals." FREE AppDownload
