Lower-rated bonds led performance within the bond market during the first quarter of 2013, continuing a theme from 2012. The combination of higher yields and good fundamentals led to price gains among lower-rated bond sectors such as high-yield bonds, preferred stocks, and bank loans. Gains among lower-rated bonds contrasted with price declines and modest losses on high-quality bonds [Figure 1]. As a result, the broad bond market, as measured by the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index, suffered a small loss of 0.1% during the first quarter of 2013. LPL Financial A modest rise in Treasury yields was the primary catalyst for high-quality bond weakness over the first three months of 2013. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note finished the quarter higher by 0.09%, but note the disparity in yield changes as short-term yields were unchanged, while the greatest yield increase occurred among long-term bonds [Figure 2]. LPL Financial   Recurring Themes Shape Second Quarter OutlookWe believe the themes below will likely continue to influence the bond market and reinforce the low-return environment for bonds as outlined in our Outlook 2013. Callout next to the 2nd quarter bullet.  Please see the Weekly Market Commentary: 10 Indicators to Watch for a Spring Slide in the Stock Market (03/25/13) for further reading.  Ongoing Challenges Should Support High-Quality Bond Prices While we continue to focus on lower-rated, higher-yielding segments of the bond market, we believe performance will slow going forward. With a near 3% total return for the first quarter, high-yield bonds, for example, have achieved roughly half of our mid-to-high single-digit total return forecast for 2013. We therefore expect performance to slow. Our forecast was based upon stable-to-slightly-weaker prices accompanied by a full year of interest income. We expect a more modest version of the second quarter rebound that helped boost high-quality bond performance in 2011 and 2012. The lack of yield in the bond market makes as strong a rebound less likely for the second quarter of 2013, but the challenges outlined above should support high-quality bond prices. Among high-quality bonds, municipal bonds stand out as an opportunity following a difficult March that led to more attractive valuations [Figure 3]. LPL Financial This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
