YahooYahoo stock price, 1996-2002   The price of the electronic currency Bitcoin continues to soar. Six weeks ago, Bitcoin was trading at $35. Since then, the price has continued to surge to new highs. Just this morning, Bitcoin blasted through $250. As is always the case with such price moves, observers have been dismissing Bitcoin as a "bubble" since long before prices even hit $35. And the observers may well be right. Bitcoin may be a bubble. Someday, Bitcoin prices may come crashing down, causing the suckers who own them then to lose their shirts. But, in the meantime, those who are speculating in Bitcoin are just laughing at all the people who are dismissing Bitcoin as a bubble.  These speculators have made 7X their money in six weeks, which is a return that more than justifies the risk they took of potentially losing everything. (As long as the chance of each outcome is roughly the same, downside of 100% and upside of 600% is a great bet.) Like the assets at the center of most powerful asset bubbles, Bitcoin has sound theoretical underpinnings. The world can benefit from a convenient global electronic currency that is not subject to the whims and political incentives of governments trying to get themselves reelected. Importantly, Bitcoin also has a small and (at least theoretically) finite supply. So the more demand for Bitcoins increases, the more the price of Bitcoins should rise. Of course, as in any bubble, the more Bitcoin prices rise, the more demand there will be for Bitcoins. Bitcoin buyers may tell themselves stories about how they are buying a "store of value" in an inflationary world, how Bitcoin is a "good investment," and so forth, but these stories will seem much less compelling if Bitcoin prices suddenly drop, say, 75%. If Bitcoin prices crash, all the folks who now think Bitcoin is a "good investment" will suddenly start crying bloody murder that they were tricked into buying something with no inherent value. And they will want to jettison their Bitcoins at any price someone will pay for them. (This is just the way bubble psychology works. Sorry about that.) In the meantime, though, Bitcoin prices could rise another 2X. Or 10X. Or 100X. Why? Because there's really just no way to figure out what a "fair price" for Bitcoin is. There's is theoretically a finite supply of it. And there is theoretically nearly unlimited demand for it. So there's no theoretical reason why Bitcoins can't eventually trade for $500, or $2,500, or $25,000. Or even $250,000.  And that means that brass-balled speculators will likely continue to plow into Bitcoin, as long as think it will continue to appeal to new speculators who haven't yet entered the game. But! Because Bitcoins have no inherent value (only the value that they can be exchanged for, which is determined in large part by speculators), Bitcoin prices could crash permanently at any time. So it's worth thinking about what might cause Bitcoin prices to come crashing down. Here are some things: All of these factors--and many others--could cause Bitcoin prices to crash. Bitcoin speculators would do well to remember that. SEE ALSO: I'm Raising My Bitcoin Price Target To $400 FREE AppDownload
