Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point, is also selling 40 million shares of Yahoo back to Yahoo. Third Point will hang onto another 20 million shares, a stake representing less than 2% of Yahoo stock. The resignations mark the end of an incredibly triumphant story for Loeb. Loeb, Wolf, and Wilson joined the Yahoo board in May 2012 after Third Point settled a long proxy fight against Yahoo's previous board of directors. That battle began when Loeb first acquired a ~5% stake in Yahoo during the fall of 2011. Starting in October 2011, Loeb began filing letters with the SEC arguing that Yahoo needed new leadership — a new board and a product-focused, visionary-style CEO. He also argued that Yahoo needed to unlock the value of its stakes in its Asian assets, Yahoo! Japan and Alibaba. In January 2012, Yahoo's board at the time attempted to placate Loeb by making Scott Thompson, the president of eBay's PayPal division, Yahoo's new CEO. It didn't work. Loeb pushed for Thompson's ouster almost immediately. Eventually, Loeb discovered a discrepancy between Thompson's official biography and his actual academic record. At eBay and Yahoo, Thompson's biography listed a computer science degree, which Thompson did not actually have. Loeb made a huge stink and Thompson eventually resigned, citing health concerns. Yahoo's board settled with Loeb. Part of the settlement brought Michael Wolf and Harry Wilson onto the board. Loeb tasked Wolf with finding a new CEO. Wolf found high-profile Google executive Marissa Mayer. After Loeb's board takeover, Yahoo soon announced a deal to sell some of its stake in Alibaba to Alibaba. This netted Yahoo ~$7 billion in cash at the time, and will bring another ~$7 billion later, when Alibaba goes public. Yahoo used the money to buy Yahoo stock. Yahoo's stock price soared. Loeb bought his 5% stake at ~$13-$15 per share. Yahoo is now trading at ~$28. Third Point made about $1 billion on the whole deal. Here's the release: Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) today announced that it has entered into an agreement to repurchase 40 million shares of Yahoo! common stock beneficially owned by Third Point LLC ("Third Point"), at a purchase price of $29.11 per share. The purchase price equals the closing price of Yahoo! common stock on July 19, 2013.  Following the repurchase, Third Point will beneficially own approximately 20 million shares, representing less than 2 percent of Yahoo!'s outstanding common stock. In accordance with the Board’s settlement agreement announced on May 13, 2012, each of the directors originally nominated by Third Point -- Daniel S. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson, and Michael J. Wolf -- have submitted their resignations from Yahoo!'s board of directors, effective July 31, 2013. The Board will then comprise seven members. Max Levchin, who was appointed as a director upon mutual agreement between Third Point and the Board, will remain on the Board. The remaining directors are committed to revisiting the Board’s size and composition.   “Daniel Loeb had the vision to see Yahoo for its immense potential - the potential to return to greatness as a company and the potential to deliver significant shareholder value,” said Yahoo! CEO Marissa Mayer. “On behalf of the Board and our entire team, I’d like to take this opportunity to personally thank Dan, Michael, and Harry for the tremendous opportunities they created here at Yahoo!. They have been incredibly supportive as we have built our executive staff and developed our strategy, and they have helped position Yahoo! for future success. While there's still a lot of work ahead, they’ve given us a great foundation.”  "Harry, Michael and I are pleased to have played key roles in Yahoo's resurgence since we joined the Board last spring," said Third Point CEO Daniel S. Loeb. "Since our Board's rigorous search led us to hire Marissa Mayer as CEO, Yahoo!'s stock price has nearly doubled, delivering significant value for shareholders. I'm confident that with Marissa at the helm and her team's focus on innovation and engaging users, Yahoo! has a bright future." Yahoo! previously announced a plan to purchase an additional $1.9 billion of Yahoo! common stock; the new repurchase agreement becomes part of that plan. Upon completion of this repurchase, approximately $700 million will remain under the $5 billion buyback authorization announced last year, on which the Company plans to continue to execute. Yahoo! expects to fund the transaction primarily with cash, and the transaction is accretive to earnings per share (EPS). About Yahoo! Yahoo! is focused on making the world's daily habits inspiring and entertaining. By creating highly personalized experiences for our users, we keep people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the world. In turn, we create value for advertisers by connecting them with the audiences that build their businesses. Yahoo! is headquartered in Sunnyvale, Calif., and has offices located throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific (APAC) and the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regions. For more information, visit the pressroom (pressroom.yahoo.net) or the company's blog (yahoo.tumblr.com). FREE AppDownload
