Conditions have stopped worsening, and Europe’s economy may be stabilizing after a period of rapid economic deterioration. However, the deep-rooted negatives that lie not far under the surface may disappoint those expecting steady improvement, much less a powerful rebound, following the back-to-back recessions of recent years. While unemployment and fiscal conditions highlight the deeply entrenched and hard-to-resolve problems facing the Eurozone, these indicators tend to lag a recovery and may stabilize if the economies actually begin to grow again. However, the lending situation suggests stabilization and a flat pace of growth may be more likely than a return to the 2<U+2009>–<U+2009>4% annualized growth rates that preceded the downturn. European stocks (MSCI Europe) have climbed 25% in dollars since one year ago on July 26, 2012, when ECB President Mario Draghi turned markets around when he said policymakers will “do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.” Over the past year, Spanish 10-year note yields fell to 4.6% from a euro-era record 7.5% the day before Draghi’s speech. Likewise, Italian yields slid more than 2 percentage points. The ECB’s efforts have made it easier for countries to borrow, but that has not extended to businesses or consumers. Lending to companies and households in the euro area has contracted over the past year. In the United States, banks have continued to ease lending standards each quarter, making it easier for borrowers to access credit. But the opposite remains true in the Eurozone. Although business loans are rising at a 7% rate in the United States and housing has been a key support for the U.S. economy, the demand for business loans in the Eurozone continued to slow in the second quarter and decelerated “substantially” for housing loans. According to the ECB’s report, banks expect loan demand to drop even further in the current quarter. Banking on the Banks Banks’ willingness to lend is particularly important for Europe’s economic outlook. In Europe, companies are more reliant on banks as sources of financing than in the United States. According to the European Banking Federation, about 75% of European business financing comes from banks, compared to 30% in the United States. And smaller businesses are particularly affected by a banking crisis because they rely even more heavily on bank lending to finance themselves than larger companies. According to ECB and EU data, in the Eurozone smaller-sized businesses have historically accounted for three-fourths of employment (and 85% of net new jobs) and generate 60% of economic value added, much higher than in the United States. Since the onset of the European financial crisis, smaller businesses have lacked financing to retain workers and have lost jobs faster than large companies. Therefore, the difficulties that small companies face in securing financing from banks that continue to make it harder to borrow dampen hopes of a rebound in the European economy. Banks may not become more willing to lend anytime soon. Banks are likely to continue to be cautious on lending and hoard capital due to an agreement, yet to be approved, that EU finance ministers reached a month ago over the rescue of troubled European banks. The new agreement establishes the hierarchy of who should pay first when a bank gets in trouble. First, shareholders and bond owners may be wiped out. Then depositors of more than 100,000 euros will suffer losses before governments step in with taxpayer money. This means banks must maintain capital buffers at all costs, since any trouble will prompt large depositors to flee—leaving fewer funds available for lending and lessening the willingness to make riskier loans to smaller businesses. Stabilizing but Fragile  The upbeat surveys and statistics released last week suggest that economic growth is stabilizing in Europe. This is primarily the lagged result of the ECB reversing the upward spiral of interest rates and providing stimulus over the past year in addition to an easing of some of the austere budget targets in some countries. But record-high unemployment levels in Southern Europe and rising unemployment in core Northern European countries along with unwillingness by banks to lend and worsening fiscal conditions across the Eurozone all point to lingering stagnation. In addition, while potent at averting a crisis, monetary policy can do little to fix Europe’s deeper structural faults, such as weak international competitiveness and low domestic demand from an aging population. While there is no longer any reason for dire predictions about Europe’s economic future, neither is there reason for much optimism. Most countries in Europe will remain economically fragile, and flat-to-weak economic growth is likely to be the prominent trend. Alternatively, the United States is poised to see positive and accelerating economic growth in the second half of 2013. As we have all year, we continue to believe U.S. stocks will outperform their international peers.  LPL Financial This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
