ToyotaIn addition to the host of economic data out today in the U.S. and around the world, global auto makers are reporting January sales figures. Nissan reported January sales growth of 2 percent, below expectations of 3.5 percent expansion. Honda sales rose 13 percent in January. Analysts were looking for a 21 percent gain. Toyota reported auto sales growth of 26.6 percent in January, ahead of analysts' estimates of a 22 percent rise. General Motors reported sales up 15.9 percent in January, ahead of expectations of a 13 percent gain. Below are highlights from GM's press release: General Motors Co. (NYSE: GM) announced today that it sold 194,699 vehicles in the United States in January, up 16 percent compared with a year ago. Retail sales were up 24 percent. Fleet sales were down 2 percent. “The year is off to a very good start for General Motors,” said Kurt McNeil, vice president of U.S. sales operations. “There’s a sense of optimism among our dealers that only comes when you pair a growing economy with great new products. We started to see the benefits in 2012 with vehicles like the Chevrolet Sonic, Cadillac ATS and Buick Verano. Now in 2013, we’re entering the sweet spot of our product plan in a growing economy.” Over the course of 2013, Chevrolet will launch the all-new Impala, SS, Silverado and Corvette, as well as the Cruze diesel and Spark EV. Buick is launching the Encore small crossover, followed by redesigns of the Regal and LaCrosse. GMC will launch an all-new Sierra. Cadillac will launch an all-new CTS. Ford reported sales up 22 percent in January, ahead of analysts' estimates of a 17 percent advance. Below are highlights from Ford's press release: Chrysler was the first to post numbers. The Detroit auto maker reported sales up 16 percent in January, ahead of analysts' estimates of 15 percent sales growth. Below are highlights from Chrysler's press release: Chrysler Group LLC today reported U.S. sales of 117,731 units, a 16 percent increase compared with sales in January 2012 (101,149 units), and the group's best January sales since 2008. The Chrysler, Dodge, Ram Truck and FIAT brands each posted year-over-year sales gains in January compared with the same month last year. The Dodge brand's 37 percent increase was the largest sales gain of any Chrysler Group brand in January. Chrysler Group extended its streak in January to 34-consecutive months of year-over-year sales gains. "It's been a good week for the Chrysler Group. On Wednesday we announced full year 2012 profits of $1.7 billion and followed that today with our January sales, up 16 percent, marking our 34th-consecutive month of year-over-year sales growth," said Reid Bigland, Head of U.S. Sales. "Entering 2013 our product portfolio has never been stronger with our new Ram truck picking up both the 2013 Motor Trend and the North American 'Truck of the Year' awards, and the introduction of our new 30 mpg highway Jeep® Grand Cherokee equipped with our new EcoDiesel engine." Total global vehicle sales reported by all auto makers are expected to fall to 15.2 million at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate in January from 15.3 million in December. We will have more sales figures LIVE throughout the day as other auto makers report. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; FREE AppDownload
