Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderTwo days after Republican infighting swirled around House Speaker John Boehner's unexpected decision to pull a Hurricane Sandy relief bill from a potential floor vote, a top conservative group is urging the House of Representatives to vote against the bill. The House is expected to vote today on the first part of the bill, a $9.7 billion flood insurance bill. Andy Roth, the Club for Growth's vice president of government affairs, said in a statement that the federal government should not be involved in providing flood insurance. Here's the group's full statement: The Club for Growth urges all members of the U.S. House to vote "NO" on the bill to expand the National Flood Insurance Program's borrowing authority by $9.7 billion. Consideration of the plan on the House floor is expected to occur today. This vote will be included in the Club for Growth's 2013 congressional scorecard. Congress should not allow the federal government to be involved in the flood insurance industry in the first place, let alone expand the national flood insurance program's authority. As we have said in a previous key vote alert, the proper way to address disaster relief is to release the funds in installments to make sure the resources are spent wisely. They should also strip out all immaterial line items, and fully offset all expenditures with spending cuts elsewhere. Serious reform would also include a way for the states to take over the responsibility for future disaster relief funding so that accountability is more localized. Our Congressional Scorecard for the 113th Congress provides a comprehensive rating of how well or how poorly each member of Congress supports pro-growth, free-market policies and will be distributed to our members and to the public. The conservative group Americans for Tax Reform has also come out against the bill, claiming that it contains too much "wasteful and unnecessary pork barrel spending." It comes two days after Republican lawmakers from New York and New Jersey — most prominently Rep. Peter King and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie — blasted House Republicans for pulling the plug on the Sandy relief bill.  "There is only one group to blame," Christie said in a press conference on Wednesday. "The House Majority and John Boehner."  "Last night, the House Majority failed the basic test of leadership and they did so with callous disregard to the people of my state. It was disappointing and disgusting to watch."  "Shame on you, shame on Congress."  UPDATE (11:25 a.m.): The House has passed the partial Sandy relief bill, 354-67. All 67 "no" votes came from Republicans. FREE AppDownload
