REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschGerman central bank (Bundesbank) President Jens Weidmann (L-R) Christopher Pleister, member of the Management Committee of the Federal Agency for Financial Market Stabilisation (FMSA) which administers the Financial Market Stabilisation Fund (Sonderfonds Finanzmarktstabilisierung (SoFFin) Germany's Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble and Elke Koenig, President of the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). Recovery? What recovery? Europe’s single currency area may no longer be suffering from the bond market turmoil which dominated the headlines in 2011 and the first half of 2012, but it remains mired in an economic, financial and political crisis. The eurozone is still struggling to turn the corner. While the European Central Bank (ECB) deserves credit for confounding those who believed it had been asleep at the wheel while deflation loomed, its decision last week to cut its key policy rate to just a whisker above zero at a time when the eurozone economy is supposed to be recovering raises more questions than answers. The rate cut will do little to address the root causes (and effects) of ultra-low inflation — and in some countries outright deflation — in the eurozone. That it was strongly opposed by members of the ECB’s governing council representing the bloc’s "northern" member states only serves to accentuate the political divisions that plague the eurozone. The most conspicuous one is over proposals to establish a eurozone-wide resolution mechanism for banks. Not only is Germany reluctant to share more risks, it’s also wary of ceding more sovereignty over its own lenders. In the eyes of the eurozone’s southern European members, Germany is showing its true face: opposing the necessary steps to move from a shaky monetary union to a more secure economic and political one. In Germany’s eyes, however, limited progress in structural reforms, particularly in Italy but also in recently downgraded France, underscore the dangers of the ECB’s highly accommodative monetary policies. There’s an inescapable feeling that a lack of trust between "northern" and "southern" member states is preventing the eurozone from overcoming the crisis — this at a time when the economies of France, Italy and Spain are expected to barely grow next year. This article originally appeared at Spiro Sovereign Strategy.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
