Gluskin SheffI have been laying out the groundwork for the next phase of this cycle, which is good news for Main Street even if not that great for Wall Street or my long-held belief in the longevity of this secular disinflationary cycle ... which I think is now in its mature stage.  I think the people that write off the prospect of cost-push inflation are taking on a very myopic view. Inflation is a process, and it takes a long while to build. There is evidence that the consumer deleveraging cycle is largely over. Subprime auto credit is up 30% from a year ago. We are up to a 20% share of mortgages being originated with downpayments of less than 10%. CLO (collateralized loan obligation) issuance is back to 2007 levels. In the corporate space, fully one-third of high-yield debt issues this year have been centred in firms with the weakest balance sheets. At some point, money velocity and the money multiplier will stop falling. No doubt fiscal drag will take a chunk out of GDP growth in the near-term, but this too shall pass and the reality is that the aggregate supply curve (and this is true globally) has become increasingly inelastic. The pool of available skilled labour is shrinking rapidly and after five years of the weakest growth in the private sector capital stock, we are starting to see the lagged ill-effects on productivity growth. Potential non-inflationary growth had already been pared, in my estimates, to 1.7%. And the only way we could have experienced a drop in the unemployment rate in the past year from 8.2% to 7.4% in the face of sub-2% economic growth strongly suggests that we are now on our way to a potential non-inflationary speed limit of just 1%. Very European indeed.  I am not very bullish on the outlook for aggregate demand growth. But the shape of the aggregate supply curve is now so inelastic that it doesn’t take much in the way of growth in spending to generate higher inflation over time. I realize that is not evident just yet to the naked eye and this is a process that will be akin to watching grass grow. That is always the case. This is the big risk — margin compression affects the ‘E’, while inflation, insofar as the tight historical relationship with final prices holds, even if to a smaller degree this time around, affects the P/E. Once again, this becomes a strategy of adding some inflation hedges to the S.I.R.P. portfolio — exposure to tangibles or hard assets, and in some cases like resources and TIPS/RRBS (real return bonds), they have cheapened up very nicely of late. Within the equity universe, dividend coverage/payouts are augmented by screening of sectors and companies that have high-fixed costs and low variable costs, that have high capital/labour ratios and also high demand inelasticities (a.k.a. ‘pricing power’). Stay tuned as this theme becomes more fully fleshed out in the near future. Better to be prepared for shifts in the landscape than to be surprised. I keep emphasizing that it took Paul Volcker a good three years to kill inflation for good and it is taking longer for Bernanke to dispel deflation concerns even if the U.S. economy in terms of consumer prices has never deflated once in the past six decades, but he will ultimately be successful and my call for higher long-term rates is a secular view that does not dismiss out of hand the prospect that near-term cyclical pressures and the aggressive buying by the Fed does not lead to a test of the yield lows in coming months. It’s just a rally I would be glad to face as it probably is the last gasp in this three-decade old bond bull phase. Unless you do believe in deflation, it is going to be difficult to hold every maturity to the 10-year T-note negative in real terms (adjusted for the core CPI trend) and negative relative to nominal GDP across the entire curve indefinitely — that last part is only sustainable in a period of negative real growth rates which is hardly the case today and remains an elusive forecast for many a pundit. Have a look at Ben Bernanke’s analytical piece called Long-Term Interest Rates back on March 1st and assess the balance of risks — visibly one-sided even if the timing is up for debate.  The prospect that we are sitting at over 3% on the 10-year T-note yield a year from now and north of 4% by 2017 is hardly trivial. I’ve been in the deflation camp for two decades ... but strongly feel it is time to move on. It is a crowded trade. I used to say in the 1990s and 2000s that we had a generation of market pundits and players who only know higher interest rates and inflation. Today, we have a group of twenty, thirty and even forty-somethings who know little about bond selloffs, inflation or even what a normal Fed tightening cycle looks like. The new paradigm has shifted in the opposite direction and today’s ever-more consensus forecast of 1% yields on 10-year T-notes and 2% on the long bond based on deflation reminds me of the bold calls for 30% bond yields back in the early 1980s based on runaway inflation. Rosie’s Rule #4: “Fall in love with your partner, not your forecast”.  A recent McKinsey study found that only 43% of employers surveyed in nine countries believed they had a sufficient pool of skilled entry-level workers to choose from. Not only that, but mid-sized firms (between 50 and 500 employees) had an average of 13 entry-level positions sitting vacant. In other words, this is far more a skills mis-match story than one related to aging (though not aged) baby boomers. The reality is that employment has risen some three million since mid-2009 but for some reason, nine million adult Americans dropped out of the labour market altogether over this time frame. The demand is there with job openings rising 81% from the cycle lows and layoffs down 41%. The problem is that new hires are stagnating at best, and this is why the workweek is being lengthened and overtime hours being expanded. And the working class is beginning to notice that it is starting to have some bargaining power as the number of voluntary quits has risen 35% so far this cycle and are flirting near 41/2-year highs. While gross hirings are anemic, to be sure, companies are trying to hang onto their staff and as such, layoff rates have come down a long way. There may well be 90 million American adults outside of the labour market and another 12 million in the jobless ranks looking for a job but can’t find one because they don’t have the right skills, but rest assured that the 144 million who are gainfully employed are becoming ever more confident in their own prospects, and that is, again, underscored by a “voluntary quit’ rate that has also risen to a cycle high. No matter the reason, the reality is that capacity is being taken out of the jobs market (much like it has in the airline sector which is one area that now has pricing power as a result), and as such, less competition for available jobs will likely result in rising wage rates unless the laws of supply and demand have managed to bypass the labour market. Much of this “capacity reduction” may reflect the fact that an ever-rising number of the “99%” are actually getting paid not to work. So I would say this may be more about the incentive system than demographics.  For example, a record 23 million households are now on food stamps — up over 735,000 from a year ago and now this is representing close to 30% of the total number of adults who now reside outside the confines of the labour force. There are also nearly nine million Americans on disability and I do not want to at all disparage those who are truly physically hurt, but my only point is that the SSDI program (Social Security Disability Insurance) is bursting at the seams, having jumped by one million workers in just the past three years and 300,000 of these in just the past three months — an annual expense (to the taxpayer and it is non-wage income to the recipient) of $165 billion.  It will not be a straight line up, and in fact, I see the prospect of a still- oversold bond market seeing lower yield activity over the near-term, but don’t confuse the small and big picture here. The big picture is that the lows in Treasury yields were turned in a year ago when a three-decade secular bull market came to an end, and a secular bear market was in its infancy. You want more evidence? Go to the Bernanke piece he penned on March 1st titled “Long-Term Interest Rates” and you will see firsthand that the architect of today’s super-low interest rates himself sees 10-year T-note yields moving from today’s 2.5%-ish level to something closer to 4% or even higher in coming years.  So if you are an issuer, the time for refinancing is now, not later. And if you are an investor, don’t spend too long debating whether you should be starting to hedge your portfolio against the prospect of a rising long- term interest rate environment, even as central banks continue to keep short-term policy yields at the floor. From the perspective of an economist at a wealth management firm, this means embarking on strategies that over time will effectively hedge out interest rate risk, for example with exposure to hard assets, credit arbitrage, and screening in the equity market for companies with high fixed costs and low variable costs, high ratios of capital to labour, and firms with a proven history of being able to pass on cost increases to protect profit margins.    To download the PDF file of the report, please click here »  This article originally appeared at Gluskin Sheff.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
