REUTERS/Jason Lee Xi Jinping is positioning himself as the most powerful Chinese leader since Deng Xiaoping Xi Jinping, the stockily-built, 60 –year-old leader of the last major nation on earth ruled by a Communist Party, has had a good, week. A major meeting of China’s leadership bolstered his authority one year after he took command of the rising superpower. Though his name is less familiar as those of his predecessors, Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, he has stamped himself as the world leader who grew most in status and power during 2013. His readiness to adopt a degree of change was shown by the announcement on Friday that a key Party meeting had decided to loosen the one-child policy to let couples have two children if one of the parents is an only child—previously, the rules had required both to be only children. The ‘reform through labour’ system by which people could be sent to prison camps at the whim of officials is to be abolished. Economic reforms were promised and there were proposals to relax policies restricting the rights of more than one hundred million migrant workers in cities. Alongside these reforms, the Party Plenum showed how Xi is accumulating authority to make him the most powerful Chinese leader since Deng two decades ago. In the past year, he has brought down potential rivals, notably the maverick politician Bo Xilai who is now serving a life sentence for corruption and whose wife was handed a suspended death sentence for murdering he British businessman, Neil Heywood. He has used an anti-graft campaign to enforce his will on officials and is reported to have installed a special high-level police unit reporting directly to him. As Chairman of the Central Military Commission, Xi has good links with the large and politically important People’s Liberation Army. On top of all this, the Plenum decided to create a national security committee to bring together the different branches of law enforcement at home and to coordinate policy abroad; there is no doubt that Xi or one of his lieutenants will head the new body. He also holds the state presidency and has been a frequent traveler to represent China at summits including meetings with Presidents Obama and Putin. Last week’s Plenum resolved to create a top body to oversee reform – it is a fair guess who will head it, especially after Premier Li Keqiang was not named alongside Xi as an author of the document announcing the decisions that had been taken. Xi has been preparing for this for a long time, showing every sign of being a masterly politician, able to work comfortably within the arcane Chinese regime and turn it to his advantage. He is what is known in China as a ‘princeling’ - the child of a first generation Communist leader. These are the country’s aristocracy. Somebody who knew him as a young man says he always carried with him a sense of entitlement. But getting to the top was a long and winding road. His father, revolutionary general Xi Zhongxun, was Deputy Prime Minister under Mao but then fell foul of the Cultural Revolution. His son was ‘sent down’ to the countryside where he looked after pigs and was refused membership of the Communist Party. The family’s fortunes perked up when Deng won the power struggle set off by Mao’s death in 1976, and Xi Zhongxun became Governor of Guangdong province in southern China which spearheaded the country’s market-led economic policies in the 1980s. After finally gaining Party membership, Jinping graduated from a top Beijing university and then worked his way up through the administrative ranks in the provinces before being elevated to China’s top body, the Politburo Standing Committee in 2007. That made him the man singled out by the opaque leadership as China’s next leader of China – before that, he had been less well-known than his second wife, a popular singer, who has stopped performing since his elevation – they have four children. On his way to the top, Xi, who will serve until 2022, gained a reputation as a conciliator well in with the various high-level factions. He has an easy public style; in contrast to the dour approach adopted by most Chinese leaders, he smiles in public and was photographed recently in an unusually informal pose with his trouser legs rolled up and holding his own umbrella as he inspected a river port during a downpour. But there is no doubting his complete attachment to the Party State he heads. The past year has seen a toughening of the clampdown on dissent and an insistence by Xi on the need for absolute loyalty to the regime. He has resurrected Maoist ideology on Party power. Western ideas of plurality and democracy have no place in the People’s Republic he heads. The potential clash between this assertion of political power and the need for economic and social reforms to maintain the momentum built up since Deng’s initial reforms thirty years ago is the major question facing China – and the world for which it has such an importance. Jonathan Fenby, China Director of the research service Trusted Sources, is author of Tiger Head, Snake Tails; China Today and The Penguin History of Modern China.  FREE AppDownload
