Business InsiderJeff Gundlach just hosted another one of his popular webcasts where he discusses his views on the economy and the financial markets. Gundlach, the brilliant fund manager behind DoubleLine Capital, has gotten a lot of attention lately for making some brilliant market calls. The most talked-about call was his long-time forecast for Apple to fall to $425.  This happened yesterday. Gundlach has also been recommending buying Japanese stocks while shorting the Japanese yen, another call that has been a home run. Japan's bond market has been the worst offenders. Even the emerging markets, which some believe to have a risk cushion, are down. The one winner is high yield bonds, which are correlated to stocks. The term "Big Easy" was never used prior to 1970.&nbsp; This was around the same time when the financial "Big Easy" began; Richard Nixon closed the gold window. Now central banks around the world are running circular financing schemes. Most major countries are running budget deficits relative to GDP.  The "Big Easy" is really about central bank balance sheet expansion.  Central banks adding to balance sheets at around 3% of GDP per annum.&nbsp; The Fed will keep this going for not months, but years.&nbsp; The important question is what will happen when they stop.  Gundlach noted that he recently increased his exposure to Treasury bonds. It's possible. But retail ownship of stocks is high.&nbsp; And bond ownership is actually quite low. Interesting that Prime Minister Abe ran on a platform of inflation, which couldn't happen in the U.S. Demographics are bad, trade deficit is rising, no savings. All that's left is currency debasement. The achilles heel of the global economy may be protectionism if currency debasement is happening.&nbsp; This is coming. *Bond yields are not rising, but the yen is falling.&nbsp; The purpose of money printing is to keep yields low.&nbsp; Quantitative easing will not allow rates to rise.&nbsp; So, with the 10-year yield above 2% and 30-year yield above 3.25%, Treauries are attractive.  QE hasn't appeared in commodity prices.&nbsp; But you could argue that they would've been lower. It's devastating for young people looking for jobs. "Government involvement creates inflation." Must consider the impact of government involvement in the markets. This is a broken model. "We do not have exposure to student debt in the DoubleLine Funds." "Housing almost has to go higher." Home prices are closer to lows than highs. "...to pick and absurdly pinpoint number." "I just don't have an opinion." The next move probably is up near-term.&nbsp; "It probably ultimately goes lowerr." FREE AppDownload
