ReutersDespite its growing popularity, the belief that money has little or nothing to do with happiness is misleading. Like Schopenhauer’s musings and Mariana’s troubles, the sweeping rhetoric about the emptiness of material wealth supports a dubious proposition that the pursuit of economic progress is somehow a waste of time because it does not deliver what is most important in life. Despite the skepticism about run-of-the-mill economic growth, despite the angry denunciations of materialism, it is usually better to have a big gross domestic product than a small one. Just ask one of the more than 3 billion people—half the world’s population—how happy they are making do with less than $2.50 a day. In fact, surveys <U+FB01> nd that richer people tend to be happier than poorer people. That’s because money provides many of the things that improve people’s lot. Richer countries are generally healthier and have lower child mortality and higher life expectancy. They tend to have cleaner environments, and their citizens often have more education and less physically demanding and more interesting jobs. Richer people usually have more leisure time, travel more, and have more money to enjoy the arts. Money helps people overcome constraints and take control over their lives. Whatever Kennedy said, gross national product does allow for the health of our kids. Researchers in Britain found that an extra £125,000 a year increased people’s sense of satisfaction with their lives by one point on a scale of one to seven. A study in Australia pored through surveys to understand how people’s feelings of happiness responded to life’s events. It found that a windfall of $16,500 to $24,500 provided more or less the same boost to happiness as getting married. Losingbetween $178,300 and $187,600 generated the same level of unhappiness as that caused by the death of a child. A Gallup survey in 2009 found that 30 percent of Americans earning less than $24,000 a year had received a diagnosis of depression, compared with only 13 percent of Americans making $60,000 or more. Happiness can be bought for a price. There is a problem with the enthusiasm for replacing GDP with a measure of happiness. Who gets to de<U+FB01>ne what makes people happy? Would it be the very same governments that would bene<U+FB01>t if the indicator found a happy citizenry? For instance, media reports from Bhutan suggest the Bhutanese have lost interest in Langthab and other traditional sports. They are nonetheless included among the fonts of happiness. Bhutan is a fairly authoritarian nation. The government banned television until 1999. In 1989 it made it mandatory for all Bhutanese to speak Dzongkha in public places. In 1985, it passed a new citizenship law that rede<U+FB01> ned ethnic Nepalese in southern Bhutan who couldn’t prove they had arrived by 1958 as nonnationals, and subsequently expelled about 100,000 of them. It has nice things, like 72 percent forest cover and few tourists. But it also has a lot of female infanticide and feticide and a lopsided sex ratio of 89.2 females per 100 males. More democratic regimes might have problems de<U+FB01>ning the attributes of happiness. While Bhutan may be a happy nation, this probably has less to do with the many dimensions of their index than with their material wealth. In 1980, Bhutan’s GDP per person was 10 percent higher than India’s. Today it is 75 percent higher. In 2009, as the rest of the world slumped, Bhutan grew 6.9 percent. In 2008 the Bhutanese economy grew by a <U+FB01> fth. Like other countries around the world, it has grown happier as it has grown richer. The World Values Survey, a set of polls performed around the world over the past twenty years, found that the happiest country in the world is rich Denmark. The least happy is poor Zimbabwe. The 2006 Gallup World Poll asked adults in 132 countries to rank their satisfaction with life on a scale of zero to ten. The citizens of Togo,whose gross domestic product per person is only $832, ranked their satisfaction at just above three. Americans, <U+FB01>fty-<U+FB01>ve times as rich, put their happiness at seven. This post has been excerpted from The Price of Everything: Solving the mystery of why we pay what we do by Eduardo Porter by arrangement with Portfolio, a member of Penguin Group (USA), Inc., Copyright (c) Eduardo Porter, 2013. FREE AppDownload
