ForaTv/ YoutubeProfessor Scott Galloway says you should "get the easy stuff right."NYU Stern Professor Scott Galloway gave some valuable life advice to a student via email that's now gone viral.  When the student arrived an hour late to the professor's brand management class, Galloway told him to leave. Later the student emailed Galloway, explaining that he was shopping around for classes, which is why he was late: "It was more probable that my tardiness was due to my desire to sample different classes rather than sheer complacency."  Galloway eviscerated the student in his reply, which he forwarded to his TA to share with the rest of the class (keeping the student anonymous). Deadspin originally published the full email exchange in 2010; we've reached out to Galloway, who gave us permission to run his response. He also shared that currently he's "getting an email about every three minutes from people (all over the world) voicing support/anger (about an 8:1 ratio)":  —— Forwarded Message ——- From: scott@stern.nyu.edu To: "xxxx" Sent: Tuesday, February 9, 2010 9:34:02 PM GMT -08:00 US/Canada Pacific Subject: Re: Brand Strategy Feedback xxxx: Thanks for the feedback. I, too, would like to offer some feedback. Just so I've got this straight...you started in one class, left 15-20 minutes into it (stood up, walked out mid-lecture), went to another class (walked in 20 minutes late), left that class (again, presumably, in the middle of the lecture), and then came to my class. At that point (walking in an hour late) I asked you to come to the next class which "bothered" you. Correct? You state that, having not taken my class, it would be impossible to know our policy of not allowing people to walk in an hour late. Most risk analysis offers that in the face of substantial uncertainty, you opt for the more conservative path or hedge your bet (e.g., do not show up an hour late until you know the professor has an explicit policy for tolerating disrespectful behavior, check with the TA before class, etc.). I hope the lottery winner that is your recently crowned Monday evening Professor is teaching Judgement and Decision Making or Critical Thinking. In addition, your logic effectively means you cannot be held accountable for any code of conduct before taking a class. For the record, we also have no stated policy against bursting into show tunes in the middle of class, urinating on desks or taking that revolutionary hair removal system for a spin. However, xxxx, there is a baseline level of decorum (i.e., manners) that we expect of grown men and women who the admissions department have deemed tomorrow's business leaders. xxxx, let me be more serious for a moment. I do not know you, will not know you and have no real affinity or animosity for you. You are an anonymous student who is now regretting the send button on his laptop. It's with this context I hope you register pause...REAL pause xxxx and take to heart what I am about to tell you: xxxx, get your shit together. Getting a good job, working long hours, keeping your skills relevant, navigating the politics of an organization, finding a live/work balance...these are all really hard, xxxx. In contrast, respecting institutions, having manners, demonstrating a level of humility...these are all (relatively) easy. Get the easy stuff right xxxx. In and of themselves they will not make you successful. However, not possessing them will hold you back and you will not achieve your potential which, by virtue of you being admitted to Stern, you must have in spades. It's not too late xxxx... Again, thanks for the feedback. Professor Galloway FREE AppDownload
