(AP Photo/dapd/ Wittek)The German Constitutional Court.The government shutdown in the United States and the prospect of a U.S. debt default are dominating the discussion in financial markets. ISI vice chairman Krishna Guha warns, however, that investors shouldn't forget about the German Constitutional Court, which is expected to rule on the legality of the European Central Bank's program of "Outright Monetary Transactions" (OMT) later this month — a policy tool that is said to have brought calm to eurozone (and thus global) markets since the summer of 2012. "We view the upcoming ruling from the German Constitutional Court on the ECB’s OMT program as a bigger tail risk than U.S. government shutdown or default," says Guha in a note to clients. "While the probability of an adverse ruling is low – in the region of 5-10 per cent – the cost of such a ruling for the eurozone and global asset markets would be extremely severe." Guha says a ruling against OMT would bring "redenomination risk" back to eurozone assets — the premium investors demand to protect themselves against the risk that peripheral eurozone sovereign bond markets blow up and countries exit the euro. "With the return of redenomination risk, the tentative and partial revival of private sector cross-border financial flows in Europe would swing into reverse," says Guha. "The massive loss of wealth and further constriction of credit supply in the periphery would push these nations back into deep recession. And in this setting, the trigger for fatal, self-fulfilling runs could emerge, whether in the form of political upheavals, bank failures or other endogenous disruptions." So, what are the odds that the German Constitutional Court rules against OMT? Guha lays out three possible scenarios: "Our probability of 5-10 per cent on the risk case is probably somewhat higher than consensus," says Guha. "We get there not because we think there is a sizeable chance that the German Constitutional Court will deliberately torpedo the program, but because it will be difficult for the Court (made up of lawyers not economists) to judge which of the conditions it might require to bring the program into compliance with German law would jeopardize its effectiveness." FREE AppDownload
