It is inevitable that around this time of year, investors ponder what the year may hold in store for the markets. While we present many drivers in our Outlook 2013 that will combine to define the path of least resistance for the markets to follow in 2013, the interrelationships between economics, fiscal and monetary policy, geopolitics and corporate actions can seem complex. Investors can feel overwhelmed and seek a simple answer. When people feel there is a situation that is out of their control or that it is too complicated to analyze, they often fall back on rules of thumb to make decisions. But when enough of us rely on them, it can have real repercussions. We do not place much value on market clichés like the “January Effect” or the “Super Bowl indicator,” but we are often asked about them during this time of the year. Jittery investors are looking for more reasons to continue selling stocks, measured by domestic stock mutual fund net outflows tracked by the Investment Company Institute (ICI), despite the gains in recent months and years. Were these indicators to turn negative, selling by nervous market participants might push stocks lower. However, on balance, these time-worn axioms support our outlook for a modest gain for stocks in 2013. 1.    The S&amp;P 500 has posted a gain for the year more than 70% of the time, no matter what the first five days have done.  2.    A decline in the first five days has been only about 50% accurate at predicting a down year. 3.    The most recent exception was in 2011, when stocks posted gains in the first five days, as measured by the S&amp;P 500 index, but the index was down just slightly for the year. Other notable exceptions in recent years include: 2007, when stocks were down for the first five days, but posted a modest gain for the year, and 2002, when stocks posted a gain for the first five days only to end up with one of the worst years on record. That said, the 2.2% gain in this year’s first five days may be encouraging for investors looking for an early indicator of how the market will fare throughout the rest of the year. Figure 1: Chinese Zodiac Points to Losses in 2013 Average Annual Change in S&amp;P 500 Index by Zodiac Sign LPL FinancialSource: LPL Financial, Bloomberg data 01/14/13   Of course, there are many more of these indicators we could mention. But you get the idea. The enduring popularity of these strategies for investment decision making — despite their history of merely coin-flip accuracy when examined closely — is a testament to a desire for an easy answer to how to invest in today’s interconnected and complex markets. For investors looking for simple and tangible indicators of growth in the economy and markets they are better served to look at other offbeat, yet more meaningful, indicators that we put more stock in which include things like: rail freight traffic, mortgage applications, hotel revenue per room, coal prices, business loan demand, bulk cargo shipping vessel costs, and recreational vehicle sales. All of which have been pointing to continued, though sluggish, growth. Call out: We put more stock in indicators such as rail freight traffic, mortgage applications, hotel revenue per room, coal prices, business loan demand, bulk cargo shipping vessel costs, and recreational vehicle sales. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
