Matthew Stockman/Getty ImagesAccording to Statistics Canada, the nation added a net 74,000 jobs in September. The consensus estimate was for job growth of 20,000. In August, employment fell by 11,000. The unemployment rate, which was expected to hold steady at 7 percent, fell to 6.8 percent, its lowest level since December 2008. Full-time employment soared by 69,300; the monthly increase was further padded with a 4,800 pick-up in part-time jobs. Employment amongst youths increased by 43,000, while core-age women (ages 25 to 54) saw net job growth of 16,000. The national statistics agency indicated that the aging population is already reshaping the labour market, attributing the annual increase of 100,000 jobs amongst those aged 55 and over to the greying of Canada. The previous two Labour Force Surveys had proven to be quite controversial; July’s had to be restated because of a processing error, while August’s showed the largest one-month increase in self-employment and drop-off in private sector employment on record. In September, this reversed: self-employment fell by 55,600, while private sector employment spiked by 123,600. As such, economists will likely consider August’s and September’s readings as a whole – the flat, sluggish pace of job creation remains intact. “Some reversal from the record drop in private sector employment seems reasonable,” wrote Bank of Montreal deputy chief economist Michael Gregory ahead of this release. Commodity price weakness has been the dominant theme for several months, but it certainly didn’t weigh on job creation in September. The natural resources sector added 27,700 jobs, which was outpaced only by growth in construction employment, a pick-up in health care and social assistance jobs, and a surge in McJobs. The largest decrease was seen in educational services, in which employment fell by 44,200, marking consecutive declines for this segment. Month-to-month readings for job growth are notoriously volatile; as such, it’s better to look at the trend to get a better gauge of how the labour market’s doing. The 12-month moving averageshows job growth is abysmal, and economists don’t expect it to show a marked improvement any time soon. “Though we’ve been calling for a catch-up in the labour market as the economy has heated up, we’re setting our sights a little lower,” wrote CIBC economist Nick Exarhos ahead of this release. “Stronger growth is clearly taking longer than anticipated to overcome some structural issues, including a skills gap.” This massive increase in employment brought the six- and twelve-month moving averages for net job growth up to 15,400 and 12,500, respectively: Business in Canada Nine readings into 2014, Canada has failed to record back-to-back months of job growth – but that could all change with the next print. The loonie, which was trading at 0.892 against the greenback heading into this print, rose above 0.895 in the minutes following this release. FREE AppDownload
