Wikimedia CommonsShinjuku StreetTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's economic contraction in July-September was deeper than initially expected on declines in capital expenditure, according to revised data on Monday that backs Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's recent decision to delay a second sales tax hike. The data indicated that the hit from April's sales tax hike turned out to be bigger than expected. Abe, who has called a snap poll for Sunday, hopes voters will agree that his stimulus policies and a decision to delay a second sales tax hike next year will revive a sputtering economy. The revision to an annualized 1.9 percent contraction, more than a preliminary 1.6 percent fall, confirmed the world's third-largest economy had slipped into recession with only a modest rebound expected in the current quarter. It compared with a median forecast for a 0.5 percent contraction. "The data confirmed a two straight quarter of recession so this is a harsh evidence for Abenomics," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. "Tame growth in wages in particular are likely to drag on private consumption and the broader economic activity." On a quarter-to-quarter basis, the economy fell 0.5 percent in July-September, compared with a preliminary reading of a 0.4 percent contraction and a median market forecast for a 0.1 percent drop, Cabinet Office data showed. The key factor behind the downgrade was a 0.4 percent decrease in capital expenditure, which was revised from a preliminary 0.2 percent fall after incorporating last week's upbeat corporate capital spending survey. REUTERS/Toru HanaiJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe bows at the end of a news conference at his official residence in Tokyo June 26, 2013On April 1, Japan's sales tax increased to 8 percent from 5 percent. After that hit household spending and led to Nov. 17's dismal preliminary GDP data showing the economy was in recession, Abe postponed a second tax hike to 10 percent by 18 months until April 2017. The decision has eased concerns about the outlook for consumer spending, which makes up 60 percent of GDP. But the recession has also shown that Abe's stimulus policies have not been enough to strengthen the underlying economy - even after some two years in office. The revised GDP data could be bad news for the Bank of Japan, which will scrutinize it and other factors at a two-day rate review that ends on Friday. The central bank, which eased policy on Oct. 31, is widely expected to keep monetary settings unchanged and maintain its upbeat view of the economy. Economists expect Japan to resume moderate growth in the current quarter on signs corporate and household spending are gradually recovering from the pain caused by the April tax hike. (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
