Russia says its dispute with Ukraine over natural-gas supplies will not be resolved unless the European Union guarantees cash-strapped Kyiv pays up front for gas it wants from Russia this winter. After three-way talks in Brussels that began on October 29 and dragged on into the night, Russian Energy Minister Aleksandr Novak said the sides had agreed on the "basic parameters" of documents setting out prices, volumes of gas deliveries to Ukraine in November and December, and a mechanism for restructuring Kyiv's multibillion-dollar debt to Russia for previous supplies. But he said Russia, which halted deliveries to Ukraine in June, will not turn on the taps unless it is certain it will be paid for future deliveries. "If there's money, there will be gas," Novak said. He said the sides had agreed to resume the talks in Brussels later on October 30. But the chief of state-controlled Russian exporter Gazprom, Aleksei Miller, said the talks would take place only if EU and Ukraine agreed on a protocol guaranteeing payments. "If such an agreement is not reached, there will be no meetings or negotiations tomorrow [October 30] and no documents will be signed," Miller said. The latest gas dispute between Moscow and Kyiv is tied to the geopolitical turmoil former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych set off in November 2013 when he scrapped plans to sign landmark political and economic agreements with the EU and turned toward Russia instead. Yanukovych's about-face sparked street protests that led to his ouster in February in what Moscow claims was a coup d'etat and the rise of a pro-Western government in Kyiv that has denounced Moscow's annexation of Crimea in March and sent government forces into eastern Ukraine to fight pro-Russian rebels it says are armed and reinforced by the Russian military. Russian President Vladimir Putin promised gas price cuts in December 2013 to dissuade Yanukovych from moving Ukraine closer to Europe, but raised the price Moscow charges Kyiv after Yanukovych's downfall and, in June, halted all supplies meant for domestic consumption in Ukraine when Kyiv failed to pay the higher price. At the time, Russia said Ukraine owed $5.1 billion for gas. Russia is the EU's biggest external gas supplier, providing about one-third of the gas consumed there, and previous price disputes between Moscow and Kyiv have led to supply cuts that have chilled Europeans in wintertime. Ukraine relies on Russia for about half of the gas it consumes, and despite storage has a winter shortfall of around 3 billion to 4 billion cubic meters (bcm), depending on the weather. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said on October 18 that Kyiv and Moscow had agreed Ukraine would pay $385 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas delivered through March 31 of this year. He said Kyiv had proposed paying $325 per 1,000 cubic meters for gas used by Ukraine in May and June and $385 for gas delivered this winter, while Russia was insisting on $385 for all parts of the year. After Yanukovych's ouster, Russia was demanding Ukraine pay $485 per 1,000 cubic meters, substantially higher than any other Gazprom client. Francois Lenoir/Reuters"If there's money, there will be gas," said Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak.Ukraine is in discussions with existing creditors the EU and the International Monetary Fund, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel -- concerned about vital Russian gas supplies to the rest of Europe -- has spoken of possible financing for Kyiv. But the Russian negotiators in Brussels said they wanted to see a firm agreement on EU financing for Ukraine. "We were told today that Ukraine will see financing to provide for prepayment for 4 billion cubic meters of gas. But this is not a guarantee, it is only a declaration by the Ukrainian side," Novak said. The gas negotiations come amid persistent tension over the conflict in eastern Ukraine, which has killed more than 3,700 people since April, and driven East-West ties to their lower point since the Cold War. Hostilities continue despite a September 5 cease-fire, and Russia has angered Ukraine by saying it would recognize elections the separatists who hold large swathes of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions plan to hold on November 2 in defiance of Kyiv and the West. FREE AppDownload
