As a Korean-American, I grew up exposed to a lot of Korean culture in America. Korea's exotic spicy foods and most mannerisms don't surprise me. So, on my recent visit to Busan and Seoul, South Korea, the things that stood out really stood out. Here are a few: Business Insider / Sam RoHaeundae, BusanBusan's luxurious beach town of Haeundae is packed with residential skyscrapers like the I-Park, the Hyperion, and the Poseidon, which tower some 60 to 70 stories. At 80 stories, Zenith Tower A is the eighth-tallest residential building in the world. At 42 stories, the Trump World towers in Busan are tall but tiny relative to its neighbors. Here's a photo of the Trump towers from the 72 floor of Zenith Tower A. Business Insider / Sam RoThis delivery man was seen on one of the top floors of the extremely pricey Zenith residential towers. Other popular chains include Burger King and Outback Steakhouse. McDonald's and Subway are also visible but not as much. Business Insider / Sam RoThis German-style bakery in Seoul's Insadong district sells New York City's cronuts. It even has a custom-made sign advertising them. Business Insider / Sam RoHot dogs are sold everywhere and in all forms. Here are some crinkle-cut fries-battered corn dogs at the Insadong street market. Business Insider / Sam RoThis is a food item we've yet to see on Starbucks' U.S. menu. Business Insider / Sam RoAnd they are delicious.   Here's a special for live abalone. Business Insider / Sam RoBecause it just makes it easier when you leave. Business Insider / Sam RoOne local told me these are considered the most luxurious colors. Business Insider / Sam RoSo people don't accidentally scuff their neighbors' cars. Business Insider / Sam RoThe first word on painted on this waste bin is "uhm sheek," which means food. This is processed into biofuel and other products. Even fast-food restaurants won't let you throw out your own trash for fear of being fined. Business Insider / Sam RoIt's almost to the point of certifiable mental illness. This chicken joint is called "Chicken Syndrome." Business Insider / Sam RoThis sign for the Kim Jong-il mental hospital was seen right in the middle of Seoul's Gangnam district. It's probably not the same Kim Jong-il as North Korea's late leader. The good news for the owner is that he's managed to stay in business despite his name.    Somac is short for soju (a Korean rice liquor) and maekju (which is just Korean for beer.) Here's my uncle making a somac by pouring beer onto a shot of soju and then slamming the bottom of the glass with a spoon. You end with a beer cocktail with a creamy finish like an Irish Car Bomb. Business Insider / Sam RoBaduk is the Korean name for "Go." Business Insider / Sam RoAlso called beondegi, roasted silkworm pupae are not loved by everyone. It's certainly not the most offensive thing I have eaten. It has the consistency of soft-shell crab and tastes like how a shoe store smells. Business Insider / Sam RoKoreans are aware that their rest areas are much nicer than the fast-food courts we see along the U.S. interstate. This restaurant has a full menu of Korean dishes made to order by cooks in chef's hats. Business Insider / Sam RoThis particular rest area, between Busan and Seoul, had three bakeries, two cafes, multiple snack-food stands, and both indoor and outdoor seating. Business Insider / Sam RoIt also had multiple luxury and souvenir shops and rows and rows of free-massage chairs. Business Insider / Sam RoMassive South Korean conglomerates, called "chaebols," include Samsung, Hyundai, and LG. In the west, they're known for their personal electronic devices and automobiles. But in Korea, they own everything from apartment buildings down to roadside gas stations and convenience stores. Business Insider / Sam RoThis ad for eye, nose, and lip work was in one of Seoul's subways. Business Insider / Sam RoAs a safety precaution, cab drivers enable child safety locks on the left side so you don't accidentally walk out into traffic. There's a tremendous sense of pride in infrastructure, especially bridges. Because you're often crossing a bridge to get somewhere, small talk often involves how quickly bridges go up.  Business Insider / Sam RoWhen you go into these restaurants, they'll ask you how many orders of the house specialty you want. This particular restaurant sells only traditional cod stew, for about $9 a bowl. You can get additional parts like intestines and pancreas. Business Insider / Sam Ro Here's a group of elementary school students on a field trip to the Bank of Korea. Business Insider / Sam RoThis clothing store sells styles similar to what you'll find at a Polo/Ralph Lauren store. Business Insider / Sam RoFrisbee is Korea's Apple products reseller. Business Insider / Sam RoSkincare products. Business Insider / Sam RoThis store had nothing James Bond would wear. FREE AppDownload
