Dina Spector/Google Maps  Craig Spencer, a 33-year-old doctor, is the first person found to have Ebola in New York City.  Since Spencer was rushed to Manhattan's Bellevue Hospital on Thursday, immediately after showing symptoms, health officials have been retracing his steps and working to identify anyone the patient may have come into contact with since returning to the United States from Guinea on Oct. 17.  As a member of Doctors Without Borders, Spencer had been treating Ebola patients in Guinea, one of the three West African countries hit hardest by the Ebola epidemic.  At a news conference on Thursday night, Mayor Bill de Blasio urged New Yorkers not be alarmed.  Ebola patients cannot spread the virus until they begin showing symptoms. Ebola is transmitted only through contact with an infected person's blood or other bodily fluids, and not through casual contact.  Here's a quick timeline of the events shortly before the time Spencer received his diagnosis, and where he traveled. Oct. 14: Spencer left Guinea.  Oct 17: The doctor arrived at John F. Kennedy airport. He displayed no symptoms at the time he left Guinea and throughout his journey home and to his Harlem apartment on West 147th street.   Tuesday, Oct. 21: Spencer reported feeling tired. He had been checking his temperature twice a day after leaving Guinea.  Wednesday, Oct. 22: Spencer was out and about: He went on a three-mile jog, took the A, 1, and L trains, and visited a bowling alley in Williamsburg. Aside from fatigue, Spencer was feeling well.  Thursday, Oct. 23: Spencer displayed the first Ebola symptoms, including a fever of 100.3 degrees, between 10 and 11 a.m. He immediately contacted Doctors Without Borders, which contacted the state health department.  The patient is currently at Bellevue Hospital, one of eight in New York State that has been designated as a facility to handle Ebola cases.  So far, the city's "disease detectives" have determined that three people he had contact with are potentially at risk. Those people — his fiancee and two friends — have been placed in isolation. Officials initially had the driver of his Uber taxi on the list as a fourth contact but determined he was not at risk.
