In the larger view, it is clear that the major economies are not near to firing on all, or even a preponderance of, cylinders. While the U.S. was thought to be defying gravity, the Q1 GDP number (up 0.1% and likely to be revised into negative territory) gave markets and forecasters a bracing splash of icy cold water.  While weather may have played a significant role in that data point, it did reflect a deepening of slowing that was already felt in November and December of 2013. More importantly, as recent data has demonstrated, the three other large economic engines of the world—the Eurozone, China and Japan—are incredibly soft. There was one other bit of additional non-data news hit this month concerning another large nation that seeks to be competitive with U.S.  Narendra Modi’s party won undisputed control of the parliament of India, tossing out the Congress Party that has governed India almost continuously since its independence from Britain.  The Congress Party’s cronyism and its tolerance of structural economic barriers to growth and competitiveness has meant that India has heretofore not been able to become a sustained net export economy, challenging the advanced nations much as China has.  Imagine if those barriers now fall. All of the foregoing portend an absence of demand growth necessary to reverse disinflationary (and, quite possibly, deflationary) trends in advanced economies.  As I have written before, the disinflationary forces present in this "Age of Oversupply," coupled with the persistent debt overhang in the developed nations that is constraining consumer and government spending, are overwhelming. Those consistently fearing inflation are being proved more and more misguided as time goes on and, this month has demonstrated that bond markets are beginning to catch on to deflationary risk, even as equity markets hover around new highs (although small cap stocks and indices have seen meaningful retracements). So how has this fundamental global macroeconomic problem been reflected in U.S. data and what are we not seeing clearly enough that has given rise to market and analytical confusion?  One area of dispute has been over the issue of the severe weather in the U.S. during Q1 2014. This certainly had an adverse impact on Q1 economic results, but the “catch up” effect is also wreaking havoc with trend analysis in Q2. Nevertheless, given the larger global macroeconomic picture and its logical impact on the U.S. economy, I don’t think snowstorms were the only things keeping the U.S. economy grounded.   The following is a summary of recent headline data, together with underlying facts and mitigating factors, that should bring us closer to appreciating what is really going on (which I shall summarize at the end of this piece).  Note that I have avoided poll data below, simply because I think such data has relevance only over very long time frames and is not particularly accurate in reflecting macroeconomic conditions in real time.  I tag each item with [BETTER] or [WORSE] to make clear my assessment of each situation, relative to the U.S. economy.   Consumer Price Index – Commodities were up only 0.1% excluding food and energy. There was a pass through of energy prices through gasoline that was reflective of previously higher crude oil prices that have since fallen.  With respect to food, all of the increase was in perishables, with huge M/M jumps in beef (3.0%) and pork (4.1%), as well as meaningful moves in dairy (0.5%) and fruits and vegetables (0.7%). As it happens, the U.S. is experiencing severe drought conditions in the far west and they are undoubtedly impacting prices on the supply, rather than reflecting pressures on the—healthier—demand side.  Proof of this conclusion may be found in the fact that all other foodstuffs were down or flat.  On the services side, all price rises were in rents (with future rises likely unsustainable given stagnant wages—more about that below), airfare and medical services.  Both of the latter two are the subject of unique industry circumstance—consolidation of U.S. airlines (decreased competition) and fluctuations in insurance costs relating to the phase in of the ACA law. [WORSE]                     Keep in mind that much of the foregoing—starts, CPI, GDP, even payrolls—is impacted by the housing sector.  Moreover, the Fed has been relying on the post-June 2012 housing sector recovery as its shining star and generator of overall economic health going forward.  During the month, Fed Chair Yellen expressed some concerns about housing and I will add my own words of caution here. U.S. housing, which did not reach its post-bubble statistical low valuation until early 2012 (a fact that seems forgotten two years later), took off in correlation with the historically low bond yields that were reached between the Fed’s QE2 and QE3 initiatives, and then accelerated greatly during QE3. By the end of 2013, U.S. housing prices had, on average, retraced nearly half the value lost since their bubble-era peak.  Prices were fueled by low interest rates, but were driven higher-still by what is still a post-crises anomaly…tight inventories of for-sale housing, amid rates of household formation (and thus incremental demand) that continue at levels lower than at any time since the Great Depression (no, that isn't a typo - and that's in nominal, non-population-adjusted terms). Looking back at the recovery in home prices that occurred simultaneously with QE3, we saw inventories constrained by homeowners remaining underwater relative to their bubble-era mortgage and thus unable, or unwilling, to sell their homes—combined with those with very low levels of home equity, insufficient to afford a down payment on a new home and therefore de-facto non-sellers. We also experienced a large number of investor purchasers of homes able to access low cost capital to acquire the limited inventory that was available, and pay up for it when necessary. Writing about the third quarter of 2013, the real estate database firm, Zillow, noted “…one in five American homeowners with a mortgage remains underwater, a stubbornly high rate that is contributing to inventory shortages and holding back a full market recovery. The “effective” negative equity rate, which includes those homeowners with a mortgage with 20 percent or less equity in their homes, was 39.2 percent in the third quarter. Listing a home for sale and buying a new one generally requires equity of 20 percent or more to comfortably meet related expenses.” One cannot find a more classic example of a market unable to find a true “clearing” price level because of non-market influences (i.e. government policy initiatives).  And like much of post-crisis history, much has been made of headline data in housing without careful consideration of underlying dynamics. We are living with an economy that appears to have been able to generate annual growth in the 2% range and has created enough jobs to replace those lost in the Great Recession, but nowhere near enough to absorb the increase in working age population since then.  Certainly, the U.S. economy has not achieved anything remotely close to the escape velocity necessary to sustain the virtuous circle of job and wage growth, consumption, and creation/absorption of new capacity.  To a certain extent, the devilish data unveiled so far this month merely underscores that.  The household debt overhang of the bubble period remains with us, and it is only an acceleration of growth that can whittle that away. Meanwhile, we remain beset by continuing, and possibly worsening, global wage and price imbalances with, and insufficient domestic demand in, our trading partners. The data is still mixed and so are the markets. Equities (at least large cap equities) are near all-time highs, while 10 year bond yields are around 50 basis points lower than they were at year end. One market is telling us that we are on the cusp of something big. The other market is signaling more of the same or worse.  What I don’t see is the event that will give rise to vigorous growth in 2014, and this month may prove to have been the period in which those more optimistic than I battled with the data devil and lost their innocence.  This article originally appeared at Westwood Capital.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
