Flickr/partymonstrrrrMattel shares are down as much as 9% on news that the company's toy sales plunged over the holiday.  Worldwide net sales in the fourth quarter were down 6%, while core brands like Barbie and Fisher-Price fell 13%.  "By every account, 2013 was a challenging and transformative year at retail," Mattel CEO Bryan G. Stockton said in the company's earnings release. "Overall, the global toy industry held up pretty well, but we did not meet our growth expectations for the fourth quarter, or the full year, mainly driven by weakness in the U.S. market." Last year, Mattel said that Barbie was losing popularity to the brand's dark "Monster High" dolls.  Here's the full release:  EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Mattel, Inc. (MAT) today reported 2013 fourth quarter and full year financial results. For the fourth quarter, the Company reported net income of $369.2 million, or $1.07 per share, compared to last years fourth quarter net income of $306.5 million, or $0.87 per share, and last years fourth quarter adjusted net income of $393.6 million, or adjusted earnings per share of $1.12, excluding the impact of the litigation charge discussed below. For the year, the Company reported net income of $903.9 million, or $2.58 per share, compared to last years net income of $776.5 million, or $2.22 per share, and last years adjusted net income of $863.6 million, or adjusted earnings per share of $2.47, excluding the impact of the litigation charge. By every account, 2013 was a challenging and transformative year at retail," said Bryan G. Stockton, Mattel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Overall, the global toy industry held up pretty well, but we did not meet our growth expectations for the fourth quarter, or the full year, mainly driven by weakness in the U.S. market. That said, Mattel did deliver a fourth consecutive year of sales and earnings growth. We saw global strength in our girls portfolio, expanded gross margins, returned nearly $1 billion to our shareholders and continued to invest in emerging markets like China and Russia, which experienced significant growth. Looking ahead, Mattel enters 2014 with the strongest global portfolio of brands, countries and customers in the toy industry. We must now effectively execute against our strategy to grow the business and deliver superior shareholder value. Financial Overview For the fourth quarter, net sales were $2.11 billion, a 6% decrease from $2.26 billion last year, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. On a regional basis, fourth quarter gross sales were down 10% in the North American Region, which consists of the U.S.,Canada and American Girl, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. For the International Region, gross sales were flat to last year, including an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Operating income for the quarter was $479.3 million, or 22.7% of net sales. The prior years operating income for the quarter was $373.5 million and adjusted operating income was $511.3 million, excluding the impact of the litigation charge. For the year, net sales were $6.48 billion, a 1% increase from $6.42 billion last year, including an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. On a regional basis, full year gross sales were down 2% in the North American Region, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. For the International Region, gross sales were up 5%, including an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Operating income for the year was $1.17 billion, or 18% of net sales. The prior years operating income was $1.02 billion, and adjusted operating income was $1.16 billion, excluding the impact of the litigation charge. The Companys debt-to-total capital ratio of 33.0% is in line with its capital and investment framework, and its year-end cash balance was $1.04 billion. For the year, net cash flows from operating activities were approximately $698 million, a decrease of $578 million compared with approximately $1.28 billion in 2012. The decrease is primarily driven by higher working capital usage, partially offset by higher net income. Cash flows used for investing activities were approximately $242 million, a decrease of $658 million, compared to approximately $900 million in 2012, driven primarily by the prior year acquisition of HIT Entertainment". Cash flows used for financing and other activities were approximately $752 million, an increase of $343 million, compared with approximately $409 million in 2012, primarily due to higher share repurchases and higher repayments of long-term debt, partially offset by net proceeds received from the issuance of long-term debt. Capital Deployment The Company announced today that its Board of Directors declared a first quarter cash dividend of $0.38 per share on the Company's common stock, which represents an increase of 6% versus last years dividend of $0.36 per share. The dividend will be payable on March 7, 2014 to stockholders of record on February 20, 2014. For the fourth quarter 2013, the Company repurchased 2.0 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $83 million, and for the year, the Company repurchased 11.0 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $469 million. In 2013, Mattels dividend will be classified as a non-dividend distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although Mattel has significant retained earnings, these earnings do not constitute earnings and profits as defined in U.S. Federal tax rules. Non-dividend distributions are considered a return of capital and are generally not taxable; however, the recipient must adjust their cost basis to reflect the distribution. For 2013, 100% of the distribution is a non-dividend distribution. Please visithttp://investor.shareholder.com/mattel/ for more information. Mattel Girls &amp; Boys Brands For the fourth quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls &amp; Boys Brands business unit were $1.35 billion, down 4% versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 13% and worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 12%, primarily driven by Disney Princess". Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels business, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox® and Tyco R/C® brands, were down 11% for the quarter. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica® and Games, were down 6% for the quarter, driven by lower sales of Radica and Games, partially offset by the Disney Planes" movie property. For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls &amp; Boys Brands business unit were $4.32 billion, up 3% versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 6% for the year. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 25% for the year, primarily driven by Monster High®. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels business, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 8% for the year. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, including Radica and Games, were flat for the year, primarily driven by the Disney Planes movie property, offset by decreases in Radica and Games. Fisher-Price Brands For the fourth quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends, and Power Wheels brands, were $647.4 million, down 13% versus the prior year. For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit were $2.12 billion, down 6% versus the prior year, driven by a decline in Fisher-Price Core, partially offset by strong performance from Thomas &amp; Friends®, Octonauts" and new franchises, such as Mike the Knight® and Bubble Guppies". American Girl Brands For the fourth quarter, gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit were $331.6 million, up 3% versus the prior year, primarily driven by Saige, the 2013 Girl of the Year. For the year, gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit were $632.5 million, up 11% versus the prior year. 2012 Litigation Charge On January 24, 2013, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision on the litigation related to Carter Bryant and MGA Entertainment, Inc. The Ninth Circuit agreed with Mattel that the verdict and damages on MGAs toy fair claims must be reversed, and directed the District Court to dismiss the claims without prejudice. The Ninth Circuits decision vacated the District Courts judgment awarding MGA approximately $172 million, consisting primarily of compensatory and punitive damages, for the claims MGA made arising out of conduct at toy fairs. Consistent with the District Courts affirmance of the award of fees and costs against Mattel arising out of the separate copyright claims, Mattel took a charge of $137.8 million ($87.1 million net of taxes) with respect to the fourth quarter of 2012 to cover these fees and costs. Live Webcast Mattel will webcast its 2013 fourth quarter and full year financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today. The conference call will be webcast on the &amp;quot;Investors&amp;quot; section of the Company's corporate website: http://corporate.mattel.com/. To listen to the live call, log on to the website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the Company's website for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call until Friday, Feb. 7 at midnight Eastern time and may be accessed by dialing + 1 (404) 537-3406. The passcode is 29340428. Presentation slides relating to the conference call, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the Investors section of http://corporate.mattel.com/, under the sub-headings Financial Information Earnings Releases. Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G regarding non-GAAP financial measures is set forth in the Exhibits to this press release. About Mattel The Mattel family of companies (Nasdaq: MAT) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. Mattels portfolio of best-selling brands includes Barbie®, the most popular fashion doll ever produced, Hot Wheels®, Monster High®, American Girl®, Thomas &amp; Friends® and Fisher-Price® brands, including Little People® and Power Wheels®, as well as a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2013, Mattel was named one of the &amp;quot;World's Most Ethical Companies&amp;quot; by Ethisphere Magazineand is also ranked No. 2 on Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens" list. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattels companies employ nearly 30,000 people in 40 countries and territories and sell products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are Creating the Future of Play. Visit us at www.mattel.com,www.facebook.com/mattel or www.twitter.com/mattel. Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements on a variety of matters, including without limitation, the Companys expected quarterly cash dividend payments in 2014. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial, economic and other information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could cause actual future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Some of these factors are described in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section ofMattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 and Mattel's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal year 2013, as well as in Mattel's other public statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so. MAT-FIN 1 Consists of the North America Division (U.S. &amp; Canada) and American Girl   FREE AppDownload
