REUTERS/Alessandro GarafaloI've got a place to do the London Ride 100 in the summer. I've never cycled 100 miles before, and I'm not in great shape. How much training do you think I need to do before the day? Any tips for cycling long distances? Daryl Hi Daryl, Firstly good work on getting a place. I did the ride last year and it’s a huge luxury not only to be able to ride with thousands of other people but to do so on closed roads for a 100 miles. One of the real pleasures was to be able to slipstream other riders when I needed a breather - it's not something you experience often cycling around cities. In fact, my first bit of advice would be to cycle in a group where you take it in turns to lead and slipstream. At 20mph, 80pc of your energy is spent overcoming wind resistance, so getting a ‘tow’ will make the miles tick by that bit faster. Aside from tagging onto a group here are my tips for riding long distances: 1. Get a bike that is the right size, and get it set up in an ergonomic and comfortable position. This will ensure you can stay on it for longer and your riding is more efficient i.e. every bit of power you put down propels you forward. 2. Don’t do all your training at the pace you'll aim for on the day. Mix up long rides with interval training and hill work, and try to cycle/train with friends. The variety will make the training easier and will mean that you’ll enjoy the 100 miles that bit more. 3. Get a turbo trainer, set of rollers or static bike so you can fit training in easily around work and life. 4. Test and develop a nutritional strategy that works for you. The rough rule of thumb to ensure a steady delivery of energy to the muscles throughout the 100 miles is to eat 1g of carbohydrate a minute. 5. Don't skimp on bib shorts and chamois cream. Your undercarriage is just as important as the muscles that power your pedal strokes! Finally, no matter how bad it gets on your way round, remember that there's a genuine treat awaiting you at the 95 mile mark. Cycling into London and passing by its famous landmarks along The Embankment when it’s closed to all other vehicles is genuinely an awesome experience. The more you train the more you’ll enjoy it - good luck. James Have a question for James? Email askcracknell@telegraph.co.uk and we'll put it to him next week  FREE AppDownload
