As we begin a new year, the earliest business surveys have confirmed the rising optimism of forecasters about the UK economy, though they have eased from their highest levels in late 2013. More and more forecasters are expecting real GDP growth somewhere between 2pc and 3pc this year, with some brave souls thinking we might get more than 3pc. For most people, the significance of growth is linked to their own circumstances: do they have a job; how secure is it; how well does it pay and what is their disposable income after taxes and the general cost of living? At the core of the political debate is the fact that, unless more jobs are created and incomes keep pace with the cost of living, then the recovery will effectively be dependent on fresh borrowing from consumers. By definition, this makes the recovery itself vulnerable. Another possible cause for concern is the possibility of a widening external deficit on the balance of payments, despite the recovery. As I have touched on in a number of articles, and in my Radio 4 documentary series, MINTs: The Next Economic Giants, the UK’s exports need to become much stronger relative to other parts of the economy. It is in the likes of the MINT countries – Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey – along with China and the other so-called BRIC countries – Brazil, Russia and India – where there is the greatest potential for export growth prospects. Even though there are reasonable signs of recovery in most of the eurozone, these countries are not going to be great export markets for us, even if they are currently the largest markets in absolute terms. Beyond their own challenges of sustaining domestic demand, most of them have just as strong a need as the UK to export elsewhere in the world. In addition, while there are more and more signs of a sustainable recovery in the US, it isn’t going to be the great importer that it once was. One of the most remarkable statistics I have seen recently was that in the 12 months to Q3 2013, the US balance of payments current account was “only” 2.2pc of GDP – not far off a third what it approached in its pre-crisis highs. This means that the US recovery is taking place but not sucking in imports as it has done in the past. For the rest of the world, the US isn’t likely to be the same easy export market it once was. What the US is demonstrating to the likes of the UK and all the other countries so eager to export (and reduce their imports) is that it is possible to do it in today’s world. Indeed, for the US to achieve this scale of external improvement over the past five years must be a good sign for the world. I keep talking about the need to export more and import less and it is really important for the UK’s macro sustainability this decade. Beyond its contribution to the balance of payments, an improved relative export-import balance would be likely to contribute to stronger fixed investment for the economy, too, which itself would lessen the dependency on the leveraged consumer. It would probably also make the balance of regional growth around the UK somewhat more feasible and reduce the dependency on the seemingly endless rise of London and the South East. Saying this is not necessarily another call for the resurrection of manufacturing at the expense of services. Exporting to the rest of the world in this era is more complex than that. It is also probably the case that, in many basic manufacturing industries, the UK and other developed countries are never going to be able to compete with the lowest labour-cost producers, who will inevitably be in the developing world somewhere. Exporting more value-added parts of manufacturing goods, as well as exporting value-added services to the rising number of affluent consumers in the emerging world, are areas where we can excel. So, beyond traditional products such as cars, other areas where we should expect to do well include tertiary education and bio-medical sciences. This also means that the sorts of investments we might be hoping for as part of the sustainability of the recovery could be different from the past. Expecting massive Lowryesque factories to be built is probably not very wise. Investment linked to our universities and other centres of technological excellence is probably more realistic. Away from issues related to exports, investment and the regional economic balance, there are huge issues about our infrastructure challenges, including the degree of our genuine national ambition, the raging debate about immigration, whether inflation can remain under control and what happens to those areas of the economy that will be sensitive to higher interest rates as and when that day emerges – all topics for further pieces. Jim O’Neill’s new book, The BRIC Road to Growth, is available from The London Publishing Partnership  FREE AppDownload
