REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA painted sign for a public house named "The Banker" is seen in the City of London.A major report out Wednesday from the New City Agenda and Cass Business School offers a pretty brutal exposé of how retail banks behaved ahead of the financial crisis in 2008.  It includes the bizarre cabbage-based torment of employees who weren't making sales. But it also breaks down how British banking ended up in its current state, with very little competition and a handful of enormous financial institutions dominating high-street banking. Three charts explain the phenomenon. First of all, here's how 16 major banks and two building societies just became the five massive institutions that dominate the UK. It's reminiscent of a similar and famous chart made by Mother Jones showing just how many US banks used to exist and how they have been merged and consolidated into a series of behemoths. New City Agenda, Cass Business School, Bankers Magazine, Collins, RBS Archives But that's not actually the full story, because it underestimates the amount of variety in financial institutions that existed 50 years ago and has since disappeared. The building society, a mutual sort of deposit and lending organisation, used to be once of the major parts of British household finance. Building societies still have significant assets, but their numbers have plummeted.  In 1960, there were 720 building societies, down from 2,286 in 1900. Today, there are fewer than 10: Building Society Association, Bank of England, Cass Business School, New City Agenda So the UK was left without building societies. But what about banks? In the US, thousands of small banks exist alongside the giants. Why not in the UK? Well, they did. But they started dying off even longer ago. At the end of the Napoleonic wars, there were more than 700 private banks, for a population of just over 10 million. These institutions were run by partners who were personally liable for their performance. Over time, they were replaced by a dwindling number of joint-stock banks (in which managers were not liable for their performance).  Collins, Presnell, Bank of England, New City Agenda, Cass Business School These banks merged with and acquired one another until there were very few, but the ones that did exist were large and had a lot of branches. This change, combined with the decline of building societies over the 100 years after, goes a long way to explaining why British banking looks so much like a cartel today. FREE AppDownload
