REUTERS/Valentin FlauraudKnowing something is likely to happen isn’t the same as knowing what to do about it. The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise the fed funds rate next year for the first time since June 2006, though nobody knows exactly when it will act or how the markets will react when it does. But Credit Suisse strategists say that if similar policy shifts in the past are any guide, investors stand to gain significant upside from global equities right up until the central bank takes action, and maybe even for a short time after. In a note last month entitled, “Fed Up: When and What Happens,” Credit Suisse’s global equities strategy team studied four recent rate increases that marked a significant turn in monetary policy – in 1977, 1986, 1994, and 2004. There’s a reason people are inclined to dump equities in the face of impending rate increases: in three of those four instances, the S&amp;P 500 hit its peak fairly close to the actual rate hike – the same month in 1986 and 1994, and four months prior in 2004. The other, 1977, was a clear exception – the market topped 11 months before the hike. What’s more, the peaks have not been harbingers of a sharp decline. The market fell an average of just 3.4 percent between the four pre-hike peaks and the eventual rate increases. Stocks have also tended to regain ground quickly, rising an average of 3.7 percent in the six months after a rate increase. In three of the four instances, the S&amp;P 500 rose at least 10 percent within 18 months of the rate hike, albeit with corrections that have ranged from 6.2 percent to 9.5 percent. “While rate rises have historically led to greater volatility in equity markets, they have not marked the end of equity bull markets,” say Credit Suisse’s equities strategists. Credit Suisse economists expect a rate hike in the third quarter of next year, but the bank’s equities strategists warn it could happen as soon as the second quarter if current strong employment growth and rebounds in the housing market and corporate capital expenditures result in faster-than-expected GDP growth. And they foresee a correction of 5 percent near the end of 2014, followed by a second correction of between 5 and 10 percent in the three months following the hike. But here’s the important thing: The strategists think stocks will climb significantly higher before either of those two corrections occurs, while also recouping their losses in short order. One factor underlying that optimism: they think investors are pricing in a much larger rise in bond yields than seems likely — the equity risk premium is currently 5.4 percent, while the strategists say 4.2 percent would be more appropriate at this stage of a business cycle. They also believe that pension funds and insurance companies that tend to be overweight bonds will rebalance their portfolios away from fixed income and (partly) toward equities as rates rise and fixed income assets start to underperform. Finally, the strategists believe the world’s major central banks would rather risk above-target inflation than stifle the recovery with prematurely aggressive tightening. Since equities are an inflation hedge and inflation doesn’t tend to erode P/E multiples until it reaches 4 percent or higher, this policy dynamic favors stocks. Some caution is obviously warranted. U.S. equities are likely to underperform in a global portfolio due to a strengthening dollar, divergent monetary policy, and high valuations. Stocks with high dividend yields tend to perform poorly as rates rise, and highly leveraged European companies with significant domestic sales (utilities, telecoms, food retailers) could suffer as the euro weakens and borrowing costs rise. Lastly, the strategists point out one wrinkle: Investment-grade corporate bond markets have not priced in a rate hike as high-yield bonds have started to do, and may struggle to compete as a larger supply of high-quality bonds comes on the market after the Fed ends its asset purchases. But there’s lots of time – and potential upside – between now and then. What kinds of equities are poised to outperform in the face of looming rate hikes? Industries that benefit directly from rising rates, such as banks and life insurance companies, are clearly worth considering. The same goes for European companies that have significant U.S. sales and would therefore benefit from a weaker euro/stronger dollar, including pharmaceutical, health care, and consumer staples firms. Rising borrowing costs in Europe and the U.S. should also benefit companies with low financial leverage and high fixed costs, such as technology firms. Finally, investors could still see considerable upside from companies that would benefit from increased corporate capex. Even with a few speed bumps ahead, investors who worry too much about getting out in time run the risk of leaving too soon. FREE AppDownload
