Suzanne Plunkett/ReutersLike this swanky pad seen in south Kensington in west London.The annual rate of house price inflation in London soared to its highest level in more than a decade in May, Land Registry figures showed on Friday, although the monthly increase was down on April's figure. The price of a home in the capital was up by 18.5% year-on-year, the biggest jump on the measure since March 2003 and far in excess of the 6.7% annual growth recorded across England and Wales. The average cost of a home in greater London stood at £439,719, more than two-and-a-half times the national average. However, the monthly figures suggest the pace of house price growth in England and Wales has started to slow. The Land Registry said prices were up by 0.4% over the month, a fall from April's figure of 1.5%, while in London the monthly changed dropped back from 4.2% to 2.5%. Many parts of the country recorded small drops, although in Ceredigion in Wales prices leaped by 5.9%. Any signs of a slowdown would come as a relief to would-be homebuyers and to policymakers who have been taking a wait-and-see approach to the market. On Thursday, the Bank of England's Financial Policy Committee resisted calls from some quarters to take immediate action to clamp down on mortgage lending, instead opting for measures that will come into force later in the year and will not result in any big changes for borrowers. The latest Land Registry figures, which do not include prices paid for new build properties, showed across England and Wales prices were up by 6.7% year-on-year in May, the same annual rate of inflation as that recorded in April. The average price of a home reached £172,035, still below the £181,572 peak recorded in November 2007. The Land Registry's figures are based on completed sales which are registered with the agency so reflect purchases agreed some months ago. Estate agents have been reporting that the London market is coming off the boil, as fears over interest rate rises, affordability constraints and an increased reluctance by buyers to pay high prices take hold. A separate report by the property firm Hometrack, which was based on a survey of estate agents and surveyors, found prices were up by 0.5% in London in June, broadly in line with the rest of the year. However there was a drop in the number of new buyers registered in the capital. "The Land Registry repeat sales index suggests that house price inflation may be levelling off in response to the sizeable drop in mortgage approvals seen since January. But it is too soon to be confident that these developments will last," said Ed Stansfield, property economist at Capital Economics. "Yesterday's rather limited action by the Financial Policy Committee, which appeared to give tacit approval to at least another year or so of very rapid house price gains, will do nothing to dampen expectations. Nor will yesterday's measures do much to stop prices in the rest of the country following London's lead." Brian Murphy, head of lending at brokers the Mortgage Advice Bureau, said: "The latest Land Registry data again shows London house prices far ahead of the curve, with no other region across England and Wales even approaching double-digit growth. "The fact that exactly half have recorded a monthly fall in the average house price shows that property values remain safely under control across much of the country." Borrowers in London are set to be hit first by the FPC's decision to limit lending at high income multiples, Murphy said "unless, of course, they are among the cash buyers, foreign owners and buy-to-let landlords who do not rely on mortgage finance but are still a major influence on rising prices". FREE AppDownload
