Suzanne Plunkett/ReutersLike this swanky pad seen in south Kensington in west London.Bank of England deputy governor Sir Jon Cunliffe has warned that the housing market is the "biggest risk" to the UK economy. Cunliffe, who is in charge of financial stability at the central bank, said a particular threat was prices rising faster than people's incomes. "That leads to... a big increase in the amount of debt in the economy," he told BBC Radio 5 Live. A few days ago he outlined his concerns about rising household indebtedness, warning that Britain's obsession with home ownership could leave the Bank powerless to control household debt. His latest comments came after figures from Nationwide, Britain's biggest building society, showed the average price of a property in London has risen by more than a quarter to £400,404 over the past year, a rate of growth not seen since the summer of 1987. Last week, the Bank of England's financial policy committee laid out measures to limit risky lending, but stopped short of taking more drastic steps to cool the housing market. The measures – the first limits on the mortgage market in 30 years – include that lenders must check mortgage applicants can cope with a 3 percentage point rise in interest rates – slightly tougher than current affordability checks. From October, there will be a 15% cap on the number of mortgages that banks and building societies can give to people who want to borrow more than 4.5 times their income. Cunliffe told the BBC that a "sustained rise" in house prices would be of concern. "Some months ago I thought the biggest risk at that point came from the UK housing market in Britain," he said. "And it's not the risk around house prices as such, it's the risk that we get a sustained rise in house prices - and this is very important - [the risk of] house prices rising faster than people's incomes. That leads to the sustained increase, a big increase in the amount of debt in the economy, in the amount of debt that mortgage holders have." The International Monetary Fund has also identified rapidly growing house prices as the biggest threat to the UK's economic recovery. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
