The latest in rail traffic showed continued double digit growth and brought the 12 week moving average in traffic to 7.5%  (via AAR):  Meanwhile, the four week average in jobless claims dipped to a new recovery low of 2.57 million:  &nbsp; We&#8217;re not back to full strength and certainly not operating at full capacity, but given the depth of the recession we&#8217;ve come out of the state of the economy deserves a bit more praise than its getting.  What is the specific significance of rail traffic? Is it correct to assume that rail is normally used to transport large goods like perhaps automobiles etc and therefore does not indicate a mass pickup in the economy but simply a pickup in a relatively small amount of large items? Thanks. One disturbance to this trend is the substantial rise in oil transport by rail in the past decade, which is essentially an increased flow in the rail traffic system.  If you look at the sum of the container and trailer rail ton-miles as a proxy for consumer purchasing then it is lower than in 2006 due to the drop in trailers while containers have increased.  However, as natural resource extraction has the largest job/gdp multiplier we have (which makes sense since you are consuming what amounts to fixed capital) the rise in oil and coal shipments is a positive sign for GDP growth, and the rise in container plus trailer shipments also a positive sign as well. So as a general indicator of changes in GDP freight traffic is a good proxy.  The changes in the total ton-miles, due to carrying coal and oil, are smoother than changes in unemployment or in YoY GDP reports (although as presented here with different metrics that is not so evident.)  We don&#8217;t know what Cullen&#8217;s model is, but unemployment and freight traffic make sense in an econometric forecasting model. Cullen, you need to Google Michael Snyder and read HIS research. Everything coming from the government is smoke and mirrors. Can you say &#8220;Enron&#8221;.? The markets will crash this year. EVERY major indicator which preceded the last few crashes have manifested except the double top in the Dow. Hold your breath. The Crash will come before you have to exhale. &#8220;1) Overall sales in June were down 11% year-over-year and at the lowest for June since 2008. (last year were down -10.8% from previous year, itself down -18.0% from 02011) 2) Cash Sales (frequently investors) were down about 40%, so investor buying appears to be declining. Non-cash sales were up about 6% year-over-year. 3) Active inventory is now increasing rapidly and is up 43% year-over-year &#8211; and at the highest level for June since 2011.&#8221; The jobless claims data ends too soon to tell you about that. When those numbers come out they might look pretty grim. So it&#8217;s worth looking at that. Specifically, it is very easy to create the impression of a growing economy by leveraging a lot and buying lots of unproductive stuff. The question then remains about whether the system is sustainable, i.e. whether the assets provide a return which is higher than the cost of leverage. This is a simplistic description, but it is at the basis of Minsky&#8217;s notion of the different levels of leveraging. If you are in the &#8216;Ponzi&#8217; stage, then it is a problem. Take e.g. unemployment. if unemployment is getting lower because a) fewer people are working (and potentially being a drag on the welfare system) and b) most jobs pay low wages, then this indicator may not be too significant, implying a generally low return on assets.
