We're looking for a hardworking individual with strong quantitative and analytical skills to join a growing team of analysts at Business Insider Intelligence. The ideal candidate will also be a strong writer.   What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the tech industry. We publish notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help subscribers stay on top of key tech trends. The service, launched in 2012, has experienced rapid growth and has expanded to cover four verticals — mobile, social media, payments, and digital media. Check out BII here.  What's The Job?  The ideal Research Associate will have a deep interest in tech news and feel comfortable analyzing a wide range of tech-related topics related to the above verticals. The Research Associate will support the research team in data-related tasks. These will include: creating charts, conducting written analysis of the charts, curating and updating data sets, researching/sourcing data, and managing data and document production. After a training period, the candidate will be expected to independently produce research reports of value to our members.  Desired Skills &amp; Experience: The candidate will complement their strong data-processing ability with good writing skills. The ideal candidate would have an interest in visual data presentation— charts, graphics, etc.  If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you possess: Requirements: This role offers a unique opportunity to straddle the media and research worlds. It would be an excellent way to begin a research/data-oriented career, or sharpen your skills before heading off to business school, or launching a career in the growing tech or digital media industries.  If interested, please include a short cover letter, writing samples, and resume with your application and apply here. Thank you in advance. FREE AppDownload
