Richard Drew/APThe Twitter bird logo is on an updated phone post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Wednesday Nov. 6, 2013Dick Costolo used to be an improvisational comedian. Quick wits can be useful in business too, especially when performing for a testy audience.  On November 7th the company he runs, Twitter, celebrated its first anniversary as a public company. In spite of early applause, its reviews among investors have been mixed. No one can quite decide on its prospects. Some believe it could become the next titan of digital advertising, up there with Google and Facebook, while others think it will be stuck in a niche, albeit a fairly large one, and will ultimately be valued as such. Mr Costolo has made big, tweet-worthy promises to his followers. "Our ambition is to have the largest audience in the world," he says. Since its founding in 2006, Twitter has been taken up by everyone from Queen Elizabeth to the commonest of commoners, while playing a role in political revolutions, including those of the Arab spring, and breaking news, such as America's raid on Osama bin Laden's compound. Its constant appearances in the mass media mean that "Twitter has received more free promotion than any company in the history of capitalism," says Peter Stabler of Wells Fargo Securities, an investment bank. Getty / Ethan MillerDick CostoloAround 285m people log on to Twitter each month--some 20% of American smartphone users and 9% of those elsewhere. It gets its content free from twittering users, and makes money by charging advertisers for such things as inserting "promoted tweets" into users' message streams. Big consumer brands like being able to direct messages at people according to their interests and location, and the real-time, conversational tone that their own Twitter feeds allow them to achieve. Twitter has more than quadrupled its revenues since 2012, to an expected $1.4 billion this year. Like many technology firms, its valuation has ballooned even more. Valued in 2009 at what was then considered a stunning $1 billion, Twitter now has a $25 billion market capitalisation, and that is after a recent fall in its shares prompted by a muted earnings announcement. Twitter stands to gain as advertisers pour more resources into digital advertising. In a way, it is a "mobile native": when it started out, people received their tweets as text messages on their phones. This may give it an advantage over some of its competitors, which need to navigate the complexities of moving from desktops to mobile devices. Today around 75% of Twitter's advertising revenues already come from mobiles. So far, however, Twitter is a more important cultural force than a commercial one. It remains unprofitable according to general accounting principles, and this is not expected to change until at least 2017. It could make money this year if it did not pay out around 45% of its revenues in stock-based compensation (compared with less than 15% by Facebook and around 8% by Google). However, it does so to retain employees in a competitive landscape where they could easily hop on the Google bus, or quit for a promising startup. When Twitter went public a year ago, it looked set to compete head-on with Facebook, and eventually Google, the goliaths of digital advertising. It now appears less likely that Twitter will hatch into such a giant. Recently its user-growth has slowed, much earlier than Facebook's did. Today Facebook has 1.4 billion monthly active users, over four times as many as Twitter, and controls around 10% of all digital advertising spend in America, according to eMarketer, a research firm. Advertisers look for a combination of scale and precision in online advertising, and Twitter has neither the largest number of users nor the most precise targeting capabilities. The Economist"Twitter has developed into an indispensable media outlet for us, but there are different levels of indispensability," says Ben Winkler, chief digital officer of OMD Worldwide, an agency that buys advertising space on behalf of clients. "Both wiper fluid and gasoline are indispensable, but they don't get the same share of wallet." Twitter is what marketers buy after they have filled up with their core digital fuel: Google and Facebook. Birthdays provide an opportunity for reflection. If the challenges faced by the firm had to be summed up in 140 characters or less, they would be: complexity, competition, and culture. Twitter can be fiddly to use for those who are not accustomed to its interface and communication style. In the past year Twitter has made it easier for people to sign up and find other users to follow, but for it to become more mainstream, it may need a further redesign. Realising that Twitter may not be for everyone, Mr Costolo and his colleagues have started to highlight the size of the audience who look at Twitter but never sign up, which is one to two times as large as the active user-base. However, these people will never be as valuable to advertisers as active users. A promise of digital advertising is more precise targeting and data collection. Twitter lags behind Facebook in both. Twitter lets advertisers reach users based on their inferred interests, including which firms' and individuals' accounts they follow and what they tweet about. However, it does not have the detailed demographic data that Facebook collects, including university affiliation, birth year, and the like. From its inception Twitter's culture has been hampered by infighting. Mr Costolo became Twitter's third chief executive when the firm was only four years old. Over the last six months the saga of executive churn has continued, with the chief operating officer, Ali Rowghani, departing amid reports of clashes with Mr Costolo; and the chief financial officer being replaced. In recent days a new product chief, Kevin Weil, has been promoted and his predecessor demoted. There have been competing visions for the future of the firm among executives. This is bound to have been a distraction. "All opportunity, little execution" is a criticism that an executive close to Twitter has hurled at the firm. Adam Bain, the firm's chief revenue officer, argues that "We've been focused on getting it right rather than doing it right away." Twitter plans to continue expanding, both by increasing its own user base and by delivering advertisements to users on other mobile applications. Before it went public last year it acquired Mopub, a mobile-advertising exchange, which allows it to place ads in real-time in other firms' apps. Recently it introduced a suite of products called "Fabric" that will make it easier for developers of other apps to integrate Twitter content (and give Twitter a cut of their ad revenues). Mr Costolo knows he needs to watch out for younger messaging firms, like WhatsApp (now owned by Facebook) and Snapchat, which appeal to young consumers and could take attention and eventually advertising spending away. To fend them off Mr Costolo wants to make it easier to do private, direct messaging on Twitter. Over time people hope Twitter will make room for more video advertising, which advertisers would like, and introduce an attractive e-commerce service, so users can buy items via Twitter with a click. Some quietly wonder whether Twitter itself might be the one that is bought. If its growth stalls and its shares become cheap enough, a larger firm, such as Google, might consider trying to catch the bird. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
