REUTERS/Andrew KellyAfter a tenuous defense Friday night, the office of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on Saturday blasted The New York Times and former Port Authority official David Wildstein, whose lawyer on Friday said that "evidence exists" implicating Christie in the George Washington Bridge scandal. Christie's camp wrote an email to political allies and friends entitled, "5 Things You Should Know About The Bombshell That’s Not A Bombshell." The email was first reported by Politico's Mike Allen and obtained by Business Insider. The email first attacked The New York Times, which originally obtained the letter from Alan Zegas, Wildstein's attorney, on Friday. The Times changed the lede of its story from saying Wildstein had the evidence to the more passive "evidence exists." "A media firestorm was set off by sloppy reporting from the New York Times and their suggestion that there was actually "evidence" when it was a letter alleging that 'evidence exists,'" Christie's office wrote in the email.  The next four points in the email defended Christie and attacked Wildstein. The email dug into Wildstein's background — including a mention of a time when, as a 16-year-old, he sued over a local school board election. The email also noted that Wildstein has been looking for immunity. His lawyer, Zegas, has said that Wildstein has a "story to tell" if he were granted immunity.  "Bottom line — David Wildstein will do and say anything to save David Wildstein," the email reads. The full email is below: 5 Things You Should Know About The Bombshell That's Not A Bombshell   1. New York Times Bombshell Not A Bombshell. A media firestorm was set off by sloppy reporting from the New York Times and their suggestion that there was actually "evidence" when it was a letter alleging that "evidence exists." Forced to change the lead almost immediately, the Times was roundly criticized, and its editor was forced to issue this extraordinary statement to the Huffington Post:     2.  As he has said repeatedly, Governor Christie had no involvement, knowledge or understanding of the real motives behind David Wildstein's scheme to close lanes on the George Washington Bridge.     3. The Governor first learned lanes at the George Washington Bridge were even closed from press accounts after the fact.  Even then he was under the belief it was a traffic study. He first learned David Wildstein and Bridget Kelly closed lanes for political purposes when it was reported on January 8th.     4. In David Wildstein's past, people and newspaper accounts have described him as "tumultuous" and someone who "made moves that were not productive."             5. David Wildstein has been publicly asking for immunity since the beginning, been held in contempt by the New Jersey legislature for refusing to testify, failed to provide this so-called "evidence" when he was first subpoenaed by the NJ Legislature and is looking for the Port Authority to pay his legal bills.       Bottom line - David Wildstein will do and say anything to save David Wildstein. FREE AppDownload
