Piper Jaffray released its semiannual report on teen spending Tuesday.  We dug through the report and pulled out some of the most interesting facts and charts.  Here's a summary: 1. For the first time in the survey's history, teens are spending as much on food as they are on clothing. Starbucks remains the perennial favorite among all teens for food-and-drink spending, according to the survey. Here's a breakdown of teen spending by category: Piper Jaffray 2. Teens are still getting most of their money from their parents. This chart shows parental contributions for average- and upper-income teens over the years. Piper Jaffray 3. Nike remains the top clothing brand among teens across all income levels. Forever 21, Action Sports Brands, American Eagle, and Polo Ralph Lauren also rank among the most popular apparel brands. Top footwear brands for upper-income teens are, in order, Nike, Converse, Sperry Top-Sider, and Steve Madden.  4. Brands that are losing popularity among teens include Aeropostale, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, and Hollister. Here's a graph of the top-cited brands that teen girls said they no longer wear: Piper Jaffray 5. On the flip side, brands that are starting to get more popular among teen girls include Forever 21, American Eagle, and Lululemon.  Piper Jaffray6. Activewear now comprises 28% of teens' apparel purchases, up from 6% in 2008. Nike, Lululemon, Under Armour, and Adidas are the most popular brands for athletic apparel.  Piper Jaffray 7. "Athleisure" — casual athletic clothing that can be worn outside the gym — is now more popular than denim. Athleisure brands include Adidas, Athleta, Juicy Couture, Lululemon, and Nike. Denim brands include Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, American Eagle, Calvin Klein, Guess, Lee, and Levi’s. 8. For the first time in the survey's history, Chipotle has eclipsed Taco Bell as the No. 1 preference for Mexican fare among both average- and upper-income teens. 9. An increasing number of teens, particularly males, prefer to shop online. In spring 2014, 26% of women and 47% of men preferred to shop online over visiting stores. That's up from 18% of women and 20% of men who preferred online shopping a year earlier. 10. Instagram is the most important social network for teens, followed by Twitter and Facebook, respectively. Piper Jaffray FREE AppDownload
