REUTERS/Paul HackettFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Oil Hasn't Impacted The Growth Of The Solar Industry (Advisor Perspectives)  "The oil price is not a driver of the solar sector, and solar's basic economics do not support the fall in solar companies' share prices, which is why we think now is an attractive time to own solar company shares," writes Edward Guinness. Although it's difficult to predict how a new industry will turn out, "it appears that solar has reached a tipping point in scalability and cost, and we can very easily see an industry 10 or more times bigger than what we have today," writes Guinness. Already, annual solar installations have exceeded the IEA targets by 7 years. Additionally, utility costs are forecasted to fall 30% between 2030 and 2050. And finally, Guinness writes that solar might be installed for $1,000 per kW by 2020 — 10 years before the IEA's expectations. Wells Fargo Advisors Will Be Increasing Death Benefits And Deferred Awards (The Wall Street Journal) Wells Fargo Advisors is looking to increase deferred compensation and will also be providing family death benefits, reports Michael Wursthon. The firm will increase base payouts, especially for the top producers. Additionally, they will be adding a length of service bonus of 15 years or more, which will increase pay by 0.5%. "When we put our listening ear to the wall with financial advisers, there were definitely some opportunities for us to make our deferred plan better," said David Kowach, the president of Wells Fargo Advisors' private client group. Guaranted Income Is The Key To Secure Retirement (Financial Advisor Magazine)  "US workers have a better chance of being financially secure in retirement if their employer-sponsored retirement plan includes a guaranteed income stream, according to Prudential Financial," reports Financial Advisor Magazine. Only 20% of households with defined benefit plans risk not being able to maintain their standard of living during retirement. On the flipside, 53% of those with the defined contribution plan do. Investors Are Backing Away From Volatile Equities (Reuters)  "World investors lifted exposure to bonds and cut back on more volatile equities as sentiment was buffeted by a Russian currency crisis, an uncertain growth outlook and rapidly declining energy prices," according to a Reuters poll, reports Chris Vellacott. The average allocation to stocks in balanced portfolios fell by nearly 1 percentage point, down to 48.2%. On the other hand, the allocation to bonds, rose for the fifth month running up to 38.2%. Typically, during volatile times, investors look to bonds, which are considered to be relatively stable. RCAP Says That All Allegations Against Schorsch Are "Unfounded" (Wealth Management)  The former chief accounting officer of American Realty Capital Properties filed a $50 million lawsuit against the former chairman Nicholas Schorsch, in which she accused him of ordering her to manipulate quarterly financial results. However, "RCS Capital CEO Michael Weil said the allegations against Schorsch are 'unfounded' and that the ordeal should have 'no material impact on the long-term strength of our business model or our operating results,'" reports Diana Britton. All of this is connected to back in October when ARCP announced a $23 million accounting error. Last week, Schorsch resigned from his role as chairman of ARCP, but is still the chairman of RCAP. FREE AppDownload
