REUTERS/Reuters TVHong Kong police charged Rurik Jutting, 29, with two counts of murderFour days after two Indonesian sex workers are found dead at the home of University of Cambridge graduate Rurik Jutting, police crack down on Hong Kong’s red light district Dozens of police raided neon-lit prostitution joints and bars in Hong Kong on Wednesday night following the vicious murders of two women at the nearby home of British banker Rurik Jutting. At around midnight, plainclothes and uniformed agents swept into the Neptune III Disco, a basement dance club in the Wan Chai red light district, past a sign, in English and Chinese, that read: “No immoral activities, No soliciting”. Inside the smoky nightclub dozens of scantily clad women, the majority Filipinas, crowded around the bar and mingled with western men in suits. Police officers demanded to see work and immigration documents from the women and left around 10 minutes later without making any arrests. Officers and police vans were also positioned on street corners around the red light district – an unusual sight, according to locals. The sale of drugs and sex went on unabated. Asked if the police operation was connected to the murders of two Indonesian women at Mr Jutting’s nearby flat, one officer told The Telegraph: “There is a little bit of a relationship.” The raids came nearly four days after the bodies of two Indonesian women were found at Mr Jutting’s nearby home, which is just two blocks from Hong Kong’s gritty entertainment district. Sumarti Ningshi, a 25-year-old mother-of-one, was killed at Mr Jutting's flat on October 27 and subsequently stuffed into a suitcase, police believe. Her friend Seneng Mujiasih – a 32-year-old better known as Jesse Lorena – is thought to have been stabbed to death in the early hours of Saturday morning. Just hours earlier she stopped outside her local Wan Chai pub and told friends: “I’m going to have fun”. The TelegraphThe Telegraph reports that these women were Jutting's victims.Mr Jutting, who until recently worked for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, appeared in court on Monday morning to be charged with the crimes. A reconstruction is expected to take place on Friday. Wan Chai’s sex workers – impoverished young women who in many cases work to support young children back home - say they have been left shaken by the killings. Their reluctance to speak openly about the crime is compounded by the fact that many are working illegally in the former British colony. “I’ve seen him in here a few times,” one Filipina sex worker, who was at the Neptune III Disco, said of Mr Jutting. Another woman, who is from the island of Mindanao in the southern Philippines, ran her finger across her throat. “It could have been one of us,” she said. Police say they found a small quantity of cocaine at Mr Jutting’s flat and the second sex worker said it was common to see well-off expats using drugs, particularly cocaine, in Wan Chai. A gram of the drug costs around HK$1,000 (£80.50). “It’s so normal here,” said the woman. Mr Jutting, a 29-year-old University of Cambridge graduate, is believed to have met both of the murdered women in bars near his 31st floor flat at the upmarket “J Residence”. He met Ms Lorena late last Friday night at the New Makati Pub &amp; Disco, a first floor nightclub which the Lonely Planet guide describes as “sleazy pick up joint” frequented by “white male booze-hounds". On Wednesday night a man who identified himself as the club’s manager refused to allow journalists into the club or to answer questions. Local sex workers said Mr Jutting had been a regular patron of the New Makati. The British banker is believed to have met Sumarti Ningshi at another nearby club called the Hong Kong Café. However, Anthony Chan, its manager, denied ever having seen Mr Jutting. “I would remember it,” he said. “He was a big guy. He looked like an American.” FREE AppDownload
