REUTERS/Amit DaveHindu nationalist Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate for India's main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), holds a lotus cut-out after casting his vote at a polling station during the seventh phase of India's general election in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad April 30, 2014. India’s national election results won’t be announced until May 16, but the country’s financial markets already appear to have picked the winner: the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP’s recently released manifesto is one of grand ambition, with goals such as about building 100 new cities, world-class ports, a network of bullet trains, and providing universal access to low-cost housing by 2022. Investors like that kind of talk, and the Sensex, India’s benchmark equity index, is up some 13 percent since a mid-February trough. Industrial and financial stocks, which would especially benefit from a capital investment revival, have seen a particularly strong rally. Those latter investors hope BJP leader Narendra Modi will not just be able to reenergize an economy suffering from slowing growth and high inflation, but also to jump-start a stalled investment cycle. Modi is, after all, the chief minister of Gujarat, which produces 17 percent of India’s industrial output despite being home to just 5 percent of the population. India could use some of Gujarat’s magic: Annual GDP growth was below 5 percent in both 2012 and 2013, a far cry from the 10 percent average annual growth between 2007 and 2011. And gross fixed capital formation grew just 1.75 percent in the 2012-13 fiscal year, compared to 14 percent in 2010-11. But the rally in industrials and financials is premature, says Neelkanth Mishra, Credit Suisse’s Indian equities strategist. Regardless of who wins, the new government will be in a fiscal bind—facing both poor revenue growth and high non-discretionary expenditures—leaving little room for large-scale fiscal stimulus. What’s more, Mishra says, even dramatic policy changes made by the central government could take six to eight years to trickle down to jobs and growth. After all, each decision must go through several layers of government, in particular state governments, which oversee most large-scale development projects, including highway construction. Consider, too, that only one-fourth of India’s 83 trillion rupee ($1.4 trillion) worth of projects under construction are actually stuck at the federal level, a fact Mishra and colleague Ravi Shankar point out in a March note entitled, “Elections: Much Ado About Nothing.” Worse yet, two-thirds of the stalled projects that might benefit from a central government push are in power and steel, two areas where the country isn’t even suffering a shortage. The country’s power plants, for example, are running at less than 60 percent of capacity, despite the fact that peak power supply fell nearly 4 percent short of demand in March and nearly 400 million Indians lack electricity. And that’s the hard stuff: sorting out the financial problems plaguing some of the state electricity boards that distribute power to end-users is a multi-year project, says Mishra. Thus, India’s investment cycle will likely remain “broken” for several more years, BJP government or not. Still, Mishra thinks the rally in industrials and financial stocks will continue through the election. The larger Modi’s margin of victory, the longer the rally will last, he says, but investors will lose faith at some point.  “The investment cycle will come back at some point, but not in the next one or two years – and the stock market will not have the patience to wait three or four years,” Mishra says. Rather than a post-election investment boom, investors would do better to simply focus on “defensive” sectors such as IT, healthcare, and staples as well as bottom-up stories in energy and consumer discretionary products. Mishra points to India’s improving macroeconomic fundamentals and says growth may be near a trough. Not only that, it does look relatively attractive compared to other emerging markets. The current account deficit has fallen from 6.7 percent of GDP in the October-December quarter of 2012 to less than 1 percent of GDP in the January-March quarter of this year—the most dramatic change among emerging markets—and consumer and wholesale price indices are at their lowest points in two and four years, respectively. Earnings revisions have actually been positive of late, and foreign institutional investors have been pouring money into Indian equity and debt markets. So there’s an India to invest in, it’s just not the one grabbing headlines due to BJP’s manifesto. Some 50 percent of India’s GDP and 90 percent of jobs come from a thriving informal sector that is neither taxed nor monitored by the government. In a report last year, Mishra and his colleagues noted massive productivity gains and rising wages due to the proliferation of roads, electricity, and cell phones in rural villages. Rural stores are making brisk sales on ready-made clothing and instant food mixes, they noted, which would have been unthinkable luxuries for many local consumers just a few years ago. Rising prosperity among some of India’s poorest residents is a trend with the staying power and thus long-term investment opportunities on the subcontinent. The idea that a game-changing election will revive the country’s moribund investment cycle is not. FREE AppDownload
