"Yo" is a gloriously simple app for the iPhone and Android for sending one-word messages to friends, family and strangers. It's stupid, fun and mildly compulsive. But there's more to each "Yo" than meets the eye. Here are the 30 types of Yo, because context is everything. The one everyone starts out with, because you have no Yoing friends until someone sends that all important first Yo. Or no one you know is silly enough to be using Yo. Something that might actually be useful. If you Yo "WorldCup" it will then Yo you each time a goal is scored in the World Cup in Brazil, even if goalline technology has some people confused. Sometimes more than a ping is too much, a single "Yo, dinner is ready," is enough. Because at first it just starts as a fun random thing, but before you know it random turns into spam. Because. Onesie. It's the equivalent of poking someone on Facebook, if anyone still does that, or pinging someone on chat. I'm bored, talk to me. And suddenly Yo is dead to you. Some people just don't want to conform to the system. Why send a drunk text when a Yo will do? When you haven't heard anything from your bestie, but just want to make sure they're not face down in a canal somewhere. Essentially short for "How you doin'?" When that's just not right. Because it's fun to be a seven year old again. Replying to random Yos is ok. Because anything can be turned into a trolling mechanism on the internet. It hasn't happen, yet. Also applicable for the condolences, Yo. Because it's easy to accidentally hit the Yo button. When someone is saying something in hushed tones, or in an obscure manner on the internet, Yo-tell-me-what's-happening. For when typing characters is just too much effort, but you must make contact. For when your team just got knocked out of the World Cup. Because you don't know who might be on the other end of that Yo. It could be Boris Johnson or even Wayne Rooney. Because sorry is the hardest word to say. For those that sleep past their alarms. For when you've done something you probably shouldn't. Because you can't blink in a Yo-off. When someone really cheeses you off, but it's an office and you can't swear, even via text. It will probably happen soon. Because you are that kind of person. Because that's how much funding the Yo app really got. • Angry cab drivers block the streets over the Uber taxi app This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
