ReutersA new poll shows support for Scottish independence sliding — unfortunate news for pro-independence leader Alex Salmond.Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Friday: 1. The United States and the European Union have agreed to broaden sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis. U.S. President Barack Obama said he would offer more details on Friday. Sources told Reuters that the U.S. planned "to sanction Sberbank, Russia's largest bank, and to further limit other Russian banks' access to U.S. capital." 2. Olympic track star Oscar Pistorius was found guilty of culpable homicide on Friday after being cleared of murder charges on Thursday for shooting his girlfriend last year.  3. Australia raised its terror threat from medium to high over the growing threat of militant groups in Iraq and Syria. In a news conference, Prime Minister Tony Abbott stressed that the country was not in imminent danger, but there is growing evidence of Australians connected to Islamist groups.  4. T.J. Lane, a 19-year-old serving a life sentence in prison after killing three high school students in 2012, was captured early Friday after escaping with two other inmates in Lima, Ohio. One of the prisoners, Clifford Opperud, is still believed to be at-large. 5. Microsoft cofounder Paul Allen's charity will reportedly donate $9 million to help fight the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, Reuters said.  6. Support for Scottish independence seems to be fading after a new YouGov poll for the Times found the No vote leading by a slight margin of 4 percentage points.   7. The CIA updated its estimate of the number of Islamic State fighters from 10,000 to between 20,000 and 31,500.  8. Documents released Thursday showed that in 2008, the U.S. government threatened to fine Yahoo $250,000 a day if the tech giant didn't hand over user data as part of an expanded surveillance program.  9. A U.S. Ebola patient being treated in Nebraska appears to be getting better after receiving "every treatment [doctors] can think of," Maggie Fox of NBCNews reports.  10. Deutsche Bank released a major report stating that bonds may be the world's last mega-bubble.  And finally... Cleo the cat walked away with only a small cut after falling 17 stories.  FREE AppDownload
