Paul Tudor Jones in "Trader"If you can keep your head when all about you Are losing theirs and blaming it on you, If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, But make allowance for their doubting too; -Rudyard Kipling’s “If” Tom DeMark has been absolutely lambasted since he first proposed his 1929 analog a few months ago. It suggests stocks might be following a similar pattern today as they did back then, ultimately headed for a crash. Even many market watchers I deeply respect have turned the study into a joke on social media. To these folks I’d just like to point them in the direction of Paul Tudor Jones II, one of the most successful hedge fund managers in history. Anyone who has read the original “Market Wizards” should be familiar with his story. It begins, “October 1987 was a devastating month for most investors as the world stock markets witnessed a collapse that rivaled 1929. That same month, the Tudor Futures Fund, managed by Paul Tudor Jones, registered an incredible 62 percent return.” How did he do it? How did he manage to profit so handily from an event nobody saw coming? Jones answers, “our analog model to 1929 had the collapse perfectly nailed. [Paul Jones' analog model, developed by his research director, Peter Borish, super-imposed the 1980s market over the 1920s market. The two markets demonstrated a remarkable degree of correlation. This model was a key tool in Jones' stock index trading during 1987.]” The 1929 analog was the “key” that helped him predict and prepare for the crash. Trader via The Felder Report The documentary, “Trader,” also verifies this account. It was filmed in the months leading up to the 1987 crash. There are many scenes in the film in which Jones and Borish discuss the analog and how it provides the foundation for their daily trading. “At times like this, what gives these two confidence is a theory that says the stock market moves in cycles, in patterns, and Paul and Peter subscribe to the Elliott Wave Theory which says to them what happened 49 years ago, in the late 1920s, is happening again now.” Sadly, Mr. Jones has removed the film from circulation. His reason for doing so is anyone’s guess but witnessing the ridicule that DeMark has suffered recently I can’t blame him. Jones and DeMark are two of the men I respect most in this business. I believe that one of the main reasons behind their success is their ability to, ‘keep their heads and have faith in their own convictions when all about them are losing theirs and doubting them.’ To me, this latest 1929 analog is still valid until the Dow Industrials make a new high. Until then, I’ll take the ridicule as a contrarian sign that Tom is onto something. FREE AppDownload
