Shutterstock This post is sponsored by Lincoln Financial Group.  Few people get all that excited about tax season. Collecting last year's receipts or deciding whether to file a 1040 or a 1040EZ isn't anyone's idea of a good time (except maybe your accountant's). Fortunately, there's one good thing that can come from the process: a refund check. While it's tempting to run out and spend this newfound fortune on a hot gadget or that bag you've been eyeing for spring, there are better ways to make that money work for you. Here are a few smart alternatives to spending your refund check this year. For some people, knowing there's money on the way is equivalent to having it in their wallet. Don't make that mistake. Avoid racking up credit-card purchases and thinking you'll "pay yourself back" when the check arrives. You'll only end up spending more than you should.  Tax season is a great time to jump-start your emergency fund or contribute to the one you already have. That way, if an unexpected medical, home, or car expense comes up, you won't be strapped for cash or forced to max out a credit card. It's also a great opportunity to open up a traditional IRA or Roth IRA account. Speak to a financial adviser about which IRA is best for you. Beefing up your entertainment system sounds cool, but what value does it really add to your home? Zilch. A little self-control can prevent you from spending your entire check on something you don't need. If you've been putting off insuring your house against natural disasters, now may be the time to get that done. Despite what many people think, standard homeowner's insurance doesn't cover weather disasters such as flooding. Even if your home isn't located in a flood zone, you'd benefit from the coverage. Each year, roughly 25% of flood claims come from outside of high-risk areas. Investing in your home's security today could save you thousands in the future. You know that AC unit that's been running up your electric bill every summer? Do something about it by updating your home with an energy-efficient cooling system or adding insulated windows and doors. Minor upgrades like these can add up to hundreds of dollars in savings, and thousands in added value to your home. Using your refund to buy a new car may sound like a good idea, but only if you can afford to pay for that car in full. If you're only contributing a down payment, then investing in depreciating assets — and adding another monthly bill — isn't the best use of your money. Every dollar you spend toward paying down your debt means more money in your pocket in the long run. You can save hundreds (sometimes even thousands) of dollars by using your refund to tackle high-interest credit cards and loans. Getting a big check can put anyone in a generous mood, but you'll want to hold off on being a human ATM to the people around you, or else you'll wind up broke in no time. If you're set on sharing your wealth with others, opt for donating part of your check to charity. Any contribution you make is tax deductible, so you'll be able to bask in the glory of being a do-gooder, all while saving money on next year's taxes. To learn more about managing your money and how to take charge of your financial future, visit Lincoln Financial Group's website. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
