Alain Jocard/ReutersRussia's President Vladimir Putin listens during his bilateral meeting with France's President Francois Hollande on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Brisbane November 15, 2014.Every central banker knows the importance of trust. In a world of fiat currencies--bank notes backed by nothing other than more bank notes--shoppers and firms must have confidence that cash will retain its value in order to hold it.  That trust is being tested in Russia, where the rouble has fallen 23% against the dollar in the past three months. Such a plunge inevitably brings inflation in the form of more expensive imports, a worry given that consumer prices in Russia are already rising at over 8% a year. Yet in recent weeks there have been creeping signs of something scarier. Faced with a clamour for dollars, Russia's banks have raised the rates they pay on dollar deposits to try to suck some in. Demand for safety-deposit boxes is up, suggesting customers are hoarding foreign currency. The head of the Central Bank of Russia, Elvira Nabiullina, is struggling to nip this trend in the bud. First, on November 5th, she hiked interest rates, to 9.5%. That means that rouble deposits earn far more than dollar ones, which should make the currency more attractive. Next, she attempted to deter bets against the rouble by replacing the central bank's puny and predictable sale of $350m a day in its defence with the threat of far bigger ad hoc interventions. Finally, she crimped commercial banks' access to roubles to limit their ability to speculate against the currency. Ms Nabiullina needed to be bold. The rouble's slide has deep causes, none of which will go away. The first is oil. In the first half of 2014 Russia's exports brought in $255 billion, with 68% of that coming from sales of oil and natural gas. During that period oil prices averaged $109 a barrel; today they are close to $80. Applying a proportional cut to Russia's energy exports would slash revenues by over $40 billion, more than wiping out Russia's current-account surplus. In most economies a big depreciation boosts demand for local products: as foreign goods get pricier shoppers pick domestic alternatives. But Russia's recent history makes such substitution difficult. The transition from Soviet subsidies to market-based agriculture was not a smooth one: production of beef, pork and poultry in Russia and Ukraine fell from almost 13m tonnes in 1991 to just 5m in 2001. Although there have been some recent improvements (notably in grain production), Russian farming is still hugely inefficient. The result is that many imports--meat, milk, eggs--have few domestic substitutes. Wholesalers that import these goods need dollars to buy them, putting pressure on the rouble. There are other reasons to sell roubles and buy dollars. Across the economy there is over $120 billion in external debt maturing in the next year according to central bank data. Roughly a third of this is owed by banks, and the remaining two-thirds by other firms. Some of these outfits--notably Russia's energy giants--have dollar revenues. A big chunk of the remainder, including the banks, do not. Since sanctions prevent many Russian companies from borrowing abroad to refinance these dollar debts, this creates sustained demand for dollars. With chunky repayments due in December, there could be another rouble rout before the end of the year. via The Economist The dependence on Western markets and currencies pains Vladimir Putin, Russia's president. On November 10th he signed a deal with Xi Jinping, his Chinese counterpart, that will see Russia export gas from Siberia to China via new pipelines. The deal provides a huge new source of demand, and could see China replace Europe as Russia's main export market. In addition, an agreement to start trading in yuan rather than dollars will cut demand for America's currency. But the pipelines will take years to be built and financing for the project has yet to be secured. In the meantime Russia may have to cope with low oil and gas prices for years. On November 12th a new set of forecasts from the Energy Information Administration, an American government agency, said that oil prices are likely to average $83 a barrel in 2015. On the optimistic assumption that the price will rise to $90 a barrel, Ms Nabiullina still forecasts zero growth and 8% inflation for 2015. Russia's rouble crisis looks far from over. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
