Wikimedia CommonsIt’s the financial mystery of 2014: With unemployment dropping and inflation creeping higher, why haven’t interest rates spiked? The consensus answer: Because Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen has convinced financial markets that the central bank isn’t planning to raise benchmark interest rates anytime soon. Usually more ornery than it has been of late, the bond market has played along, but things change – and when they do, the world of fixed income may be in for a bumpy ride. The mere hint of tighter monetary policy usually sends bond markets swooning. Ten-year Treasury yields rose nearly a full percentage point in the four months after former Chairman Ben Bernanke first suggested in May 2013 that the central bank could start reducing its monthly asset purchases “within the next few meetings.” The bank held off from the start of tapering for seven months, but it began doing so in December, and it continues along that trajectory today. Which brings us back to the mystery. Yields on ten-year Treasuries have actually fallen since tapering began: from 3 percent at the beginning of the year to 2.58 percent as of July 8, despite an improving labor market and signs of inflation. How long can the seeming disconnect last? James Sweeney, Chief Economist for Credit Suisse’s Investment Bank, says four economic conditions need to be in place for interest rates to rise ahead of – and independent of – the Fed’s forward guidance. The economy met only one of those conditions in April, but it meets two today, and will likely meet all four by the end of the year. When that happens, a market that is currently is pricing for a September 2015 rate hike is likely to move expectations forward. What follows is a status report on the four conditions. Credit Markets Turn Frothy: Happened A While Ago As of mid-July, high-yield borrowers paid, on average, a premium of 3.48 percentage points over Treasuries, well below the already historically low 5.11-point spread at this time last year and light years away from the 21.82 percent peak in December 2008. On an absolute basis, too, the 5.29 percent average yield for high-yield bonds is the lowest it’s been in a decade. Concerns that tight credit spreads and low market volatility might threaten financial stability prompted Kansas City Fed President Esther George to advocate raising short-term interest rates faster than currently anticipated in the Federal Reserve’s dot survey. In a July 3 speech, however, Yellen said that she sees no imminent need to tighten policy based on financial stability concerns.  Inflation at 2%: Just Happened Core CPI inflation, which does not include food and energy prices, has increased steadily in 2014, from a January reading of 1.6 percent to 2 percent in May. Credit Suisse rates strategists noted in a report last month that Yellen has waved away inflation worries for now, “calling the evidence of a rise in inflation ‘noisy,’ and striking a relatively dovish tone despite acknowledging the high degree of uncertainty a number of times.” But that kind of talk, they add, puts the Federal Reserve in danger of falling behind the curve when it comes to the market’s reaction to inflation data going forward. Improving Global Growth Momentum: Happening Now Growth in global industrial production (measured on an annualized rolling three-month basis) slowed from 5.3 percent in November 2013 to 3.4 percent in June. Idiosyncratic regional factors drove the slowdown, chief among them being the twin effects of a brutal winter and inventory overhang in the U.S. But Credit Suisse’s fixed income team says improving U.S. manufacturing data and rising levels of new orders in recent PMI surveys suggest that global industrial production momentum may have troughed in June. The team expects it to accelerate through the fourth quarter, and for global GDP growth to grow 3.3 percent in the second half of the year. Unemployment Below 6%: Should Happen By Year-End The U.S. unemployment rate hit 6.1 percent in June, and Credit Suisse economists expect it will fall to 5.8 percent by the end of the year, a whisper away from the 5.2 percent to 5.5 percent range the Fed considers “full employment.” In a June 18 press conference, Yellen said declining labor force participation rates indicate lingering slack in the labor market. If those frustrated workers resume their job searches as the economy strengthens, she added, the downward march in unemployment should slow. But a recent analysis by Credit Suisse economists suggests that declining participation rates are more structural than cyclical, and that even if unemployment dropped a full 1 percent over the next year, any resulting increase in the participation rate would be an insignificant 0.05 to 0.1 percentage points, making Yellen’s hypothetical unlikely. The Fed’s dovish signals to this point are understandable. Economic activity, while improving, isn’t back where it needs to be. U.S. GDP, for example, is expected to rise just 1.5 percent this year, the slowest growth rate since 2009. But the doves’ days seem numbered. As soon as next month, Credit Suisse expects the Fed outlook to become more balanced as central bankers zero in on an exit strategy from more than five years of near-zero interest rates. And once that happens, the long-awaited bond market reckoning is likely to finally make an appearance. FREE AppDownload
