REUTERS/Jason LeeAlibaba founder Jack Ma. Chinese ecommerce giant Alibaba is set to raise up to $21 billion in its IPO, with shares expected to be priced at between $60 and $66, according to a filing with the SEC.  The company's updated filing shows that the offering will comprise up to 320 million shares, with the company itself offering 123 million shares and investors such as founder Jack Ma, executive chairman Joe Tsai, and Yahoo offering 197 million shares. At the midpoint of this range, the company would be valued at about $160 billion. Alibaba's offering is likely to be the largest debut on the New York Stock Exchange. AlibabaA really broad overview of everything Alibaba does. At the high end of its $60-to-$66 offer range, Alibaba would raise about $21.1 billion, surpassing the $19.7 billion raised by Visa in its 2008 public offering.  Alibaba is a Chinese ecommerce behemoth that is part Amazon, part eBay, and part PayPal, among other things. Alibaba's filing shows Yahoo will sell roughly 121 million shares in the IPO, giving Yahoo a 16.3% stake in Alibaba after the offering. Currently Yahoo holds a 22.6% stake in the company. Earlier on Friday, CNBC reported that Alibaba planned to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Sept. 19 and is likely to price shares on Sept. 18. Shares will trade under the ticker BABA. Alibaba is also set to begin its roadshow — meetings with investors ahead of its public offering — next week, and The Wall Street Journal reports the company will meet with investors in Asia, Europe, and the U.S.  Reports ahead of the IPO have indicated that Jack Ma, the company's founder and chairman, is China's richest person, with a net worth of $21.8 billion owing to his 7.3% in Alibaba and his nearly 50% stake in Alipay, its PayPal-like payment unit.  Back when Alibaba filed for its IPO in May, Business Insider's Jay Yarow pulled these three charts from the company's massive prospectus that basically explain what Alibaba does.  In late August, Business Insider's David Smith highlighted this chart, which shows how Alibaba's revenue from mobile has grown steadily. Additionally, research from Business Insider Intelligence indicated that the value of all merchandise sold over Alibaba's sites was roughly four times greater than that of eBay.BI Intelligence FREE AppDownload
