REUTERS/Grigory DukorVisitors look at the headless, reclining sculpture of the river god Ilissos at the State Hermitage Museum as part of its 250th anniversary celebration in St Petersburg, December 6, 2014. Economists were elated on Friday to learn US nonfarm jobs increased by a whopping 321,000 in November. This was the biggest single month of job gains since January 2012. It was also the 50th straight month of job gains. Impressively, all major industries saw gains. Things are good in the US. Employment is improving and inflation is low. All eyes will be on the retail sales report this week. Economists expect low gas prices to appear as a big plus in this report. The numbers will also offer some clarity regarding Black Friday sales. Most folks understand that Black Friday stats reveal little about the health of the consumer or the retail business. Still, the retail sales report may offer additional color regarding why sales were unusually disappointing this year. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary More and more strategists argue we should think about stocks as being in a long-term, secular bull market. So rather than obsessing over 12-month targets, investors should consider the likelihood that we'll see many more years of gains. This is a position floated by RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, FundStrat's Tom Lee, BMO Capital's Brian Belski, and Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders. (This contrasts with folks like GMO's Jeremy Grantham and John Hussman who warn of low or negative returns.) "Our view, which we have held since the market bottomed in 2009, is that the current bull market is secular, not cyclical," Sonders said. "Secular bull markets—like from 1949 to 1968 and 1982 to 2000—are extended bull markets characterized by above-average annualized returns and generally less-dramatic downside risk." "Given our view that the market is transitioning toward the second stage of a secular bull market (“acceptance”), we believe US stocks are poised to provide average returns of 8-10% for at least the next three to five years, similar to historical norms," Belski wrote. "This does not mean this market is immune to corrections," Sonders warns very explicitly. Belski similarly warns "corrective phases are not out of the question and some years may be better or worse than the average (or even negative)." Indeed, Black Monday 1987 — the day the Dow plunged 22% — was right in the middle of the 1982-2000 secular bull. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
