REUTERS/Remo CasilliItaly's Prime Minister Matteo Renzi speaks during a confidence vote at the Senate in Rome February 24, 2014.Most of us are given our nicknames for something that we’ve already done. But Matteo Renzi, who became Italy’s youngest-ever prime minister when he replaced fellow Democratic Party member Enrico Letta last month, has one based on what he plans to do: Italians have taken to calling him “ll Rottamatore” or “The Scrapper.” He earned the moniker for his calls to scrap huge chunks of the Italian political status quo, which is widely seen as having failed a country that is clawing its way out of its worst recession since World War II. No one expects change—Renzi calls it “exiting the swamp”—to happen overnight. The new prime minister told Parliament last month that he would form a government that would serve until its term expires in 2018. (In Italy, the governing coalition can resign at any time, forcing politicians to form a new one. If they fail to do so, the President can call for new elections.) But Renzi, who was fierce in opposition, is also going to have to start delivering quickly on his ambitious reforms, lest he himself be scrapped. Although he currently enjoys the highest approval ratings of any politician in the country, they won’t stay high for long if voters don’t sense changes in Italy’s political and economic landscape. After shrinking 2.5 percent in 2012 and another 1.9 percent last year, Italy’s economy is expected to expand just 0.6 percent this year, according to European Commission forecasts. Unemployment, which hit a recent low of 5.8 percent in April 2007, has been trending upward ever since—and it hit 12.9 percent in January. “Shocking numbers, the highest for 35 years,” Renzi tweeted after the figures were released last week. Youth unemployment, meanwhile, is off-the-charts. Some 42.4 percent of 15-to-24 year-olds were without a job in January, the highest level since 1977, according to national statistical agency Istat. Renzi hasn’t let any time go to waste: in January, when he was just the Democratic Party leader and not the Italian Prime Minister,he struck a deal with former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, leader of centre-right Forza Italia, to advance a new electoral law and constitutional reforms. After that, the prime minister has promised to reform the labor market in March, overhaul the public administration in April, and tackle tax reform in May. The charismatic 39-year-old former mayor of Florence will need every bit of his well-known charm to successfully tackle issues that a long list of past Italian governments have failed to address. “[The needed reforms] have been clearly listed by different domestic and international authorities since…2011,” Credit Suisse analysts who cover Italy wrote in a recent note entitled, “The Steep Climb.” “However, opposition inside and outside [both parliament and] the public administration is likely to be harsh.” Renzi does have a few things going for him. First of all, he’s new. And in a fed-up society, new counts for a lot.“The popular support that Renzi enjoys…together with the disillusion versus the current political class and some modest economic upturn may help the new prime minister deliver at least some of this much needed reform,” Credit Suisse analysts wrote. Renzi’s first objectives – passing constitutional and electoral reform – are likely to be the easiest, due to the support he’s already secured from the center-right Forza Italia. These reforms aim to make Italy’s fractious government more stable by granting 55 percent of the seats in Parliament to the party that wins more than 37 percent of the vote. (In the event that two parties earn more than 37 percent, it would trigger a runoff election.) The move would diminish the importance of small parties that lack broad support, which have made it difficult for recent governments to build stable coalitions. Renzi also wants to de-emphasize the sprawling Senate by limiting its powers and restricting its membership. Then comes the hard stuff: economic reforms. “Priority number one…has to be job creation,” says Vincenzo Scarpetta, a political analyst for the Open Europe think tank. Renzi’s proposed Jobs Act would provide universal unemployment benefits, cut employment taxes deeply and offer tax incentives for companies that create jobs, particularly for young people. It would also make it easier for companies to fire employees, which is notoriously difficult in a country where workers can sue if they feel they have been fired without just cause. It would also make it impossible for judges to order businesses to reinstate their fired workers. Renzi’s labor market reforms could boost GDP by 5.75 percent within five years of being introduced, according to IMF research from 2013. But such reform is extremely controversial in Italy, and will likely elicit howls from lawmakers and citizens alike. And even if the reforms do pass, implementing them won’t be easy, either. “He will have to deliver reforms that have been awaited for years and find the resources needed to cover them in a very short time,” says Davide Tentori, an International Economics Research Associate at Chatham House, the Royal Institute of International Affairs, a policy think tank in London. Complicating matters is the fact that Renzi lacks a decisive parliamentary majority. In the Lower House, his Democratic Party’s coalition holds 60 percent of seats, but in the Senate, it has a far thinner majority of 169 senators out of the total 315 and the 5 senators for life. The majority is similar to the one enjoyed by former PM Letta, including a center-right splinter group from Berlusconi’s party, two centrist parties and a conglomerate party of various regional political groups. A quite diversified support and a lot of partners to keep happy. There may be an outside chance that the popular Renzi could assemble a stronger Senate coalition than Letta’s. That is, if Berlusconi’s Forza Italia group extends their support for electoral and constitutional reform to other measures. Disenchanted members of comedian Beppe Grillo’s Five-Star Movement (M5S) protest party, which has developed notable fault lines of late, could also throw their weight behind some of Renzi’s proposals. Still, Enrico Colombatto, director of the International Centre for Economic Research in Turin,predicts Renzi won’t wait until 2018 to call an election, but will do so as soon as he has enough popular support to stand a chance of strengthening his coalition. Credit Suisse analysts agree, and think snap elections could happen any time Renzi feels confident in the result. The upshot of that, says Colombatto, is that Renzi might play politics over policy, and end up diluting reforms to placate members of his coalition. “I think he’ll proceed with half-hearted labour reform so he can say, ‘I started to change things,’” Colombatto said. “But then to the left, he can say, ‘I have not made you jobless and penniless.’” A fresh face in the prime minister’s chair or not, Italy is in for a bumpy ride in the coming months. “The busy and ambitious agenda outlined by the prime minister will likely be tested soon,” Credit Suisse says. For the moment, however, Renzi represents new possibility for a people sick of lost opportunities. That’s reason enough to believe he just may succeed where others have failed. FREE AppDownload
