Bruno Vincent/Getty ImagesStripped of its stars.Nobu's reign as a leading light on London's restaurant scene may be over as it is stripped of its Michelin stars London’s famous celebrity hangout Nobu has been stripped of its Michelin star in the latest UK guide. The Japanese fusion restaurant in Park Lane and its sister branch in Berkeley Street have both had their one-star status removed. Nobu opened in London’s Metropolitan Hotel in 1997 and was awarded a Michelin star the same year for the 1998 Guide. It was the first European venture of celebrated Japanese sushi chef Nobu Matsuhisa who launched it in collaboration with Hollywood actor Robert De Niro, restaurateur Drew Nieporent, and hotel owner Christina Ong. It quickly became a favourite haunt for the rich and famous with frequent visits from the likes of Kate Moss, Brad Pitt and Elton John. In 2005 Nobu Berkeley Street was unveiled with a menu created by Mr Matsuhisa and executive chef Mark Edwards, and claimed a Michelin Star just five months later. Now Nobu’s 16-year reign as one of London’s most desirable dining experiences appears to be over. The restaurants were among a number of prestigious London eateries which have been downgraded in the latest guide. Chapter One restaurant in Bromley, which first claimed the award in 2001, has been left star-less Medlar in Chelsea, with its French inspired menu, has also had its star removed. Others including Apsleys, the Hyde Park Corner restaurant set up by famous German chef Heinz Beck, and television chef Tom Aiken’s Chelsea restaurant have lost their stars due to temporary closures for renovation and relocation schemes. The change marks a move towards more informal dining with gastro-pubs and relaxed “hipster hangouts” taking on Britain’s traditional fine dining restaurants in this year’s Michelin Guide. The 2015 guide has awarded 14 new stars to eateries including three country pubs, a tapas bar, a curry house and a restaurant set within a champagne and hotdog bar. Michelin Guide editor Rebecca Burr said there was an ongoing trend towards more relaxed dining settings which was reflected in this year’s list. She praised the huge diversity seen among Britain’s top restaurants which boast cuisines from all over the world. “The 14 new stars in our 2015 guide highlight the enormous richness and variety of the UK’s restaurant scene. “They range from country pubs to hipster hangouts, from counter-restaurants to classic dining rooms”, she said. Two newly starred London restaurants, Soho-based Spanish tapas bar Barrafina and the Kitchen Table at Bubbledogs, in Bloomsbury serve food at counters. The Clove Club, a bar restaurant in Shoreditch which gained its first star this year, was set up by a team who cut their teeth in pop-ups. Three gastro-pubs, The Treby Arms in Devon, The Cross at Kenilworth in Warwickshire and the Star Inn in north Yorkshire, where visitors can enjoy a three course dinner for just over £30, have all gained their first stars this year. The team at Indian restaurant Gymkhana are also celebrating a Michelin star rating. The new stars are spread across the UK with two in Wales, two on the Scottish islands and one in Cornwall. They include Isle of Eriska in Eriska and Three Chimneys and The House Over-By on the Isle of Skye, Ynyshir Hall in Machynlleth, and the Crown at Whitebrook in Monmouth. Cornwall's latest star has gone to Port Isaac's Nathan Outlaw and his Outlaw's Fish Kitchen. Ms Burr said: “London does still dominate the list but there are great restaurants all over the country and in areas where one good restaurant opens up often others follow. “There’s some fantastic deals to be had as more talent chefs turn their attention to gastro-pubs and other less formal set ups. “People often say, ‘Oh, Michelin is changing, they’re recognising more informal places’, but it is not us, it is the industry that is changing.” The Michelin Guide Great Britain &amp; Ireland 2015 is £15.99 in most bookshops.  FREE AppDownload
