Wikimedia CommonsIn the ever-complicated effort to form a true European banking union, policymakers closed out 2013 with a notable milestone: The Single Resolution Mechanism announced at a Dec. 18 meeting of national finance ministers in Brussels established a long-awaited framework for winding down failing banks in future crises. Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni and others hailed the agreement as the most important shift in euro-zone economic policy since the creation of the single currency. Critics lambasted the deal’s shortcomings, and Credit Suisse’s European Economics team called it “a convoluted step” toward a banking union. But it’s better than nothing. Under the agreement, the first line of defense against future bank failures will be a so-called “bail-in” shouldered by banks’ large depositors (those with more than €100,000 in their accounts), shareholders and bondholders. If enacted, that measure will take effect in 2016, and will require that shareholders and creditors take losses equivalent to 8 percent of a lender’s total liabilities before national authorities can step in to rescue a bank. Should that prove insufficient, policymakers also agreed to create a €55 billion fund that would rescue ailing banks, with the caveat that the fund would only be allowed to pay up to an additional 5 percent of an institution’s total liabilities. No more than 10 percent of the fund could be disbursed in a single year without special permission. The plan for the new resolution fund calls for it to be created gradually over the next 10 years through a levy on banks, thereby placing the responsibility for funding future bailouts squarely on the financial institutions that might need them, rather than on taxpayers and governments. At first, national governments will collect and administer payments from their own banks. Over the course of the decade, the national funds will be combined into one common pool that will then be available to banks throughout the region. “One good element of the agreement is that in the long run the Single Resolution Fund will be fully European,” Credit Suisse’s European Economics team noted last month. That’s not to say that national coffers will not be tapped in future financial crises. But having both strict bail-in rules as well as a resolution fund to call on ahead of government funds would have the effect of limiting the public’s financial exposure to future bailouts. The European Council has set a March deadline to negotiate the finer logistical points of how levies from banks in individual EU countries will get pooled into a common resolution fund. If approved, the resolution mechanism will go into effect next year. European officials have yet to decide what to do in case a bank fails before the €55 billion fund has been fully established. One suggestion is that if both a bail-in and whatever interim funds banks have already kicked in to the resolution fund are inadequate to wind up a failing lender, national resolution authorities would be able to use sovereign funds or borrow from the existing €500 billion bailout fund known as the European Stability Mechanism. The accord is far from perfect. The relatively small size of the resolution fund means it could prove too small to address big bank failures in a serious crisis, not to mention the fact that it won’t even be fully financed until 2025. The procedures proposed to actually access the fund will involve multiple decision-makers and approvals, making it potentially difficult to act in a timely manner during a crisis. Plus, the European Parliament can still delay the final approval of the SRM if individual countries have legal objections to the agreement. The powers of the new structure pale in comparison to those of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which is responsible for paying out insured deposits, selling bank assets and repaying creditors during a bank failure. In Europe, the Single Resolution Board that will decide when a bank is failing or likely to fail would still have to cede authority for implementing the resolution plan to officials in the bank’s home country. Of course, the FDIC is lucky enough to answer to only one government and can count on a credit line from the U.S. Treasury. By contrast, European efforts have to wrangle an unwieldy bloc of 28 nations—including large countries and tiny ones, prospering economies and those that are struggling—that already have their own existing laws. It’s a group that has proven itself prone to prickly discord. Given that, it’s quite impressive that there has been any meaningful agreement at all, especially as there remains serious disagreement between member nations about what caused the crisis in the first place. Just a few weeks ago, the prospect of reaching a timely deal was in serious doubt, but now the European Parliament might even have enough time to consider the plan before its term ends in May. And a final agreement would go a long way toward building confidence that the region really is committed to preserving the euro. After the very real existential crisis of the last five years, finance ministers such as Germany’s Wolfgang Schäuble are right to see the increased possibility of actually doing so as an accomplishment in and of itself. One thing that nobody disagrees on is the fact that Europe found itself  ill prepared when the U.S. financial crisis spread to its borders in 2008. The region’s web of national regulatory systems was complex and inefficient, and European institutions were not equipped to govern the rescue of large, cross-border banks. That inability proved disastrous, as the fragility of some countries’ banking systems meant that lenders couldn’t meet their liabilities when their assets were devalued. It became apparent that if the euro was going to survive, the region needed to better govern its monetary union, ensure the resiliency of its banks through a system of guarantees and make sure taxpayers didn’t carry the burden of insolvent financial institutions. It also became clear that the euro zone needed new rules governing the detection and resolution of bank failures in order to jumpstart lending, improve investor confidence, and boost growth. Since then, the European Commission has flirted with proposals for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector, and in mid-2012 heads of state committed to a banking union. In addition to the just-approved resolution mechanism, the union also includes the so-called Single Supervisory Mechanism, which puts the European Central Bank in charge of supervising euro-zone banks. The SSM was approved by European finance ministers in October, and is expected to take effect in the latter half of 2014. Given the euro zone’s dim track record in recent years at a cooperative approach to detecting and fixing problems with bank balance sheets, naysayers had a right to be pessimistic about the probability of a comprehensive agreement to crisis resolution ever being reached. But those probabilities just rose substantially. FREE AppDownload
