AP ImagesThis excerpt was taken from Gluskin Sheff's Breakfast with Dave. A full PDF version is available at GluskinSheff.com. As for the oil price, we are into a political game of chicken which means nobody really knows what the bottom is. Did the Saudis blow it with a failed bluff? Or is this a long-term plan to recapture market share from the shale producers and a geopolitical strategy to hit Russia, Iran and ISIS as hard as possible? After all, with a $2 trillion reserve fund to keep fiscal finances afloat, the Saudis have staying power and the oil minister just indicated late last week that a production cut is not coming yet.  At the same time, U.S. oil output continues to rise as the demand conditions globally wane (indeed, U.S. production is growing one million barrels per day annually and the Energy Department just predicted that output will rise 700,000 barrels per day in 2015 and average 9.3 million barrels per day — whatever negative production response there is to be does not happen until the second half of next year).  Something tells me that at some point, the low in the oil price will be turned in when Saudi Arabia announces that “enough is enough” (not yet, obviously, with Al-Naimi asking rhetorically at a Lima conference last week, “Why should I cut production. This is a market and I’m selling in a market. Why should I cut?”). This is what happened in 1986, after all — and once it cut production to 2.5 million barrels per day from 10 million barrels per day at the time, the bottom was finally reached, but only after a 60% slide that ended with WTI near $10 per barrel.  Many geopolitical experts would tell you this was a concerted attempt by the West, with Saudi assistance, to start the process of weakening the Soviet Union back in the mid-1980s — maybe yes, maybe no but for 15 years, oil prices settled in a new and lower range (not $10, mind you) of $20 to $40 dollars a barrel (far off what the National Energy Plan was calling for, if you remember) and we all moved on.  I sense a similar situation this time around but I do have to say that a new consensus has emerged of WTI slumping to $50 per barrel — if you think the consensus call on bond yields this time last year was bad, the forecast for oil was $94.50 per barrel!  If we truly mean revert, we could be in for a retest of $35 per barrel — that is what the chart says, it is not exactly my forecast — and then likely to be in a new range of $50 to $70 dollars thereafter. That $35 level, however, would very much resemble the capitulation lows we had both in 1986 and again in 1998 in real terms (something has to give to bring the market back to balance — the EIA projects that global supply will still outstrip demand by some 400,000 barrels per day in 2015).  That would cause quite a bit of pain in terms production and/or investment cuts, dividend cuts, asset sales, consolidation, defaults in the High-Yield debt space — but this is where capitulation bottoms are turned in historically, regardless of the market whose bubble has burst.  For the time being, the oil market will remain beset by sluggish global growth, excess world supply, and the reluctance of OPEC — or the U.S. for that matter — to curb production.  Imagine going to sleep in 2002 when the oil price was $20 per barrel and waking up today to hear about a collapse to just under $60. We spent several years with a price near or above $100 and as has always been the case in the past, human ingenuity takes over — ways to more efficiently consume oil (forms of conservation) and new innovative ways to produce it.  The “peak oil” theorists were merely food Malthusians in disguise. It was somehow inevitable that lowered pricing was going to become an outcome at some point — the by-product of the technological advancement in fracking and other forms of extraction, along with greater supply. Oh yes, and as if that cheaper alternative (otherwise known as natural gas, where prices sagged with production growth of 40% in the past seven years) didn’t end up having a role in this too.  But what concerns me now is how the markets are reacting in general, not just the energy market. Investors are worried about knock-on effects (especially in the credit markets), the effect this can have on the global financial system, the deflationary impulse on a world economy still beset by an unprecedented debt burden six years after the collapse, and geopolitical implications.  The action in government bonds is telling us that rightly or wrongly, markets are really concerned about the oil price slide exacerbating deflationary pressures — deflation for debtors is indeed a worrisome development. Emerging Markets that are oil exporters and who had previously borrowed heavily in U.S. dollars are going to face severe financial strains.  While lower energy costs certainly benefits the U.S. economy (large trade deficit and consumer driven) in broad terms, it has the opposite effect for many of the world’s zero growth economies.  So now analysts and investors, at the margin, are extrapolating that the U.S. may in fact struggle more next year than is commonly believed. Remember, the surprise, by definition, may well not be on the upside in terms of cyclical risks — the consensus is already at 3% for real growth next year.  As for the “black swan”, I am getting asked about this more and more from our clients. I do not know if I should be comforted by this or feel uneasy — at least there isn’t anyone out there who is wide-eyed and bushy-tailed.  The general uncertainty of the rapid oil decline, coupled with the fragility and intransigence of many of the governments most impacted, calls into question the “unknowables” (social unrest, terrorism, war, etc.) and markets abhor uncertainty — that much we do know. And that is how Friday’s “baby out with the bathwater” felt as a microcosm to that effect.  As I said above, if anyone tells you that have conviction on where oil is going, they are either liars or delusional. That said, I do think that we have set in motion long-term pricing that will be challenged to move materially higher, which should continue to support U.S. — at this point, the fear is almost palpable, but not totally irrational.  And for now, the market is not differentiating between good and bad deflation. The bond market is telling us that deflation globally is becoming more of a serious risk. Full stop.  The economist and the strategist in the room carries the burden of calling the markets, but sometimes you have to step back, take a holistic approach, and assess what the message the markets are actually conveying.  Markets do have this tendency to shoot first and ask questions later. That has not changed one iota.  This article originally appeared at Gluskin Sheff.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
