Liau Chung-ren/ReutersA policeman stands guard in front of a group supporting China's recent white paper over the control of Hong Kong, during a mass protest demanding universal suffrage in Hong Kong July 1, 2014.Editor's note: Following giant protests in Hong Kong, people on Quora are discusing what will happen in Hong Kong if the CCP continues to interfere with their autonomy. We've published the full answer from Joseph Wang, Chief Scientist at Bitquant Research in Hong Kong, below. Nothing. People that are annoyed are already protesting. People that aren't annoyed don't care. The term "Hong Kong autonomy" means different things to different people.  From academics and political activists, it means moving HK to a more democratic system where people can use the political system to make some basic changes to the economic system of HK.For the business community, "autonomy" means the right to make money, and to make HK a place where rich people run things, and people can keep making money.In 1997, the rich people and the political activists were both worried about the the CCP.  The tycoons were worried that the CCP would make HK socialist and take their money.  The political activists were worried that the CCP would come in and stomp on freedom of speech.The political situation is very different today.  It turns out that the CCP has turned capitalist, and the rich people in Hong Kong are now allied with the CCP since the CCP lets them make a ton of money in the Mainland and has set things up so that they can make tons of money in Hong Kong.  "Hong Kong people rule Hong Kong" to them means "rich HK people rule HK" and that's the system that is there, and the system that they would like to keep.Needless to say, the Occupy Central people are not happy with this.My guess is that the Occupy Central people will lose this fight.  Aside from the fact that rich HK people have enough allies in the middle class to make Occupy Central an annoyance, there is the issue that the Occupy movement has failed to be politically relevant anywhere else in the world, and there is no reason to think HK will be their first successful place.  The are making the same mistakes they are making everywhere else, and HK rich people are using the same tactics that they've used elsewhere against Occupy.This isn't a fight between Hong Kong and the CCP. It's a fight between the Occupy movement and HK tycoons.  And the HK tycoons are solidly on the side of the CCP.  As long as the CCP guarantees *their* version of HK autonomy (i.e. rich HK people rule HK), they'll work with each other.  Once you get the rich people on the side of the CCP, the upper middle class will get pulled along.  The rich give the poor enough so that they won't revolt.The more the Occupy movement does what it is doing, the closer the relationship between HK tycoons and the CCP will be.  Both of them want a system in which people have free speech, because you will be able to scream all you want, but it won't matter because they control the really important decisions.  You'll exhaust yourself screaming, and once you run out of energy, they'll make the decisions that they always wanted to.Remember the last scene from Animal Farm in which the rich pigs and the humans look the same. One other dynamic is that the Occupy tends to be stronger in college campuses, but the fraction of HK people that go to college is much smaller in most other societies.  Also, in the US, newspapers like the New York Times and the Washington Post have a lot of "opinion power" in that what the newspapers say matters a lot.  With the right scandal, the press can make or break a politician or business person.Even though HK has free speech, the newspapers don't really have that much power.  They can scream and scream and no one that matters really cares. FREE AppDownload
