Ulmart, Russia's answer to Amazon, is close to appointing advisers for an IPO in London next year, as sales surge past $1bn (£602m). Russia's biggest e-commerce company is close to appointing advisers for a London IPO next year, after passing $1bn (£602m) in sales. Ulmart, an Amazon-style marketplace that started life selling computers, but has branched out into children’s toys and furniture, is Russia’s largest internet business, after overtaking the Russian search engine Yandex. Discussions are underway about hiring two banks to advise on the flotation of the company, which is currently valued at between $2.5bn and $3bn. Ulmart’s projected revenue for 2014 is $1.6bn, up 60pc from $1bn in 2013. Dmitry Kostygin, the majority owner and chairman of Ulmart, met Goldman Sachs in London today, following a recent meeting with the bank’s Moscow arm. Mr Kostygin, who last year increased his stake in Ulmart to 60pc, is also talking to banks and investment funds across London, Russia, Switzerland, the US and Asia about raising $300m to $400m of growth funding. If the financing talks prove successful, Ulmart will postpone its London listing for around three years while it continues to focus on expanding the business. Ulmart currently sells around 80,000 products, but plans to expand to 150,000 by the end of the year. The company also plans to quadruple the capacity of its distribution centres over the next 18 months, while tripling sales. Two new fulfilment centres are under construction in Moscow and St Petersburg. Mr Kostygin chose to list the company on the London Stock Exchange after its recent surge of public offerings, such as AO World, Merlin Entertainments and Poundland. But he remains positive about doing business in Russia, despite the political unrest in Ukraine. “I see that there is enough capital in Russia,” he said. “It will remain the fifth largest economy in the world for at least the next decade.” However, Mr Kostygin warned that a decision by the US and the EU to impose sanctions on Russia in response to President Putin’s actions in Crimea would be a “huge mistake”. “It is primitive to seize or freeze assets, or to say businesses have to leave Russia,” he said. “If they [the West] are really that stupid, I think Russia benefits. Russians are already more cautious about using Western suppliers, such as Facebook and Visa, and they are looking for their local or Asian substitutes.” Mr Kostygin, who spent five years in Zurich earlier in his career, favours the Swiss model of “the sovereignty of the small communities”. Under Switzerland’s federal government, each of the country’s 26 cantons is responsible for setting its own tax rates and regulation, enabling home-grown enterprises to thrive.  FREE AppDownload
