There are some interesting parallels between this situation and the membership of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Current Governor Jeremy Stein has submitted his resignation from the Board in order to return to his teaching position at Harvard after serving two years of his term, which was to expire in January 2018.  Thus, he is leaving after his sophomore year, presumably in part because Harvard’s policy, like that of many other major universities, is to grant a leave of absence for a maximum of two years before a faculty member on leave must resign his or her position. In Governor Stein’s case, some have begun to suggest that his resignation was motivated by the fact that he placed a stronger weight on the FOMC’s inflation objective than did other members of the Board. But this is only conjecture, and probably not likely, because he never dissented from any policy decision during his tenure on the FOMC. A more probable explanation is the tenure issue combined with the fact that Governor Stein has already seen much of public service beyond his short stint on the Board of Governors, including time spent as a senior person in the Treasury and as a member of the Council of Economic Advisors. He should be well positioned to capitalize financially, if he so chooses, on his government service.  Similar situations faced former Governors Fredric Mishkin and Alan Blinder who left the Board to return to tenured teaching positions at NYU and Princeton, respectively, after serving slightly less than two years. Governor Miskin indicated that one pressing priority he faced was an upcoming revision of his extremely successful college textbook. The Board of Governors has tended to be a revolving door: the average tenure of Board members since its creation in 1913 has been 6.7 years, and this average has dropped to 5.5 years starting with Alan Greenspan’s chairmanship in 1987. The next longest serving governor after Greenspan himself was Roger Ferguson, who served 8.5 years. Short tenures were clearly not the intent of Congress.  The Federal Reserve Act provides that the seven Board members are to be appointed to 14-year terms, with a term expiring every two years. The intent was longevity that would help to ensure political independence and institutional memory over the business cycle. Additionally, the act also seeks a broad representation among various business and public interests on the Board as well as geographical diversity.  Normally, if full 14-year terms were served, no one sitting president would ever be able to appoint a majority of the Board, at least until that presidential term was nearly up. The rules do provide for tenures to extend beyond 14 years, since a governor appointed to serve an unexpired term is then eligible to be appointed to a full term, which explains why Alan Greenspan was able to serve for some 18.5 years. Enter now the current Board team. There is a new point guard to lead the team in Janet Yellen (granted, she has played numerous roles on past teams). There is an incoming rookie two-guard in Stanley Fisher, assuming he is confirmed, and another rookie in Lael Brainard.  Jerome Powell, whose term expired early this year, has been nominated to fill a full term. There will be another rookie appointed to fill Jeremy Stein’s remaining term. It is also noteworthy that President Obama will have appointed all seven members of the Board (eight if one also includes Sarah Bloom Raskin, who served only 3.4 years), and there is still more than two years remaining in his second term. This begins to look like a team with a lot of freshmen, people playing in new positions, and a team that is short on institutional knowledge. Given the challenges of unwinding the FOMC quantitative easing program and returning policy to a normal stance, let us hope that this team does as well as the Kentucky freshmen have so far – and is as lucky with last-second shots. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
