Federal ReserveEarlier this afternoon, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) unveiled its monetary policy, choosing to taper its asset purchase program by $10 billion, to a monthly pace of $35 billion. The statement was, on the whole, dovish. Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen then took the stage to explain the Fed decision. Economic activity is rebounding in the current quarter and will continue to expand at a modest pace after. "Unemployment remains elevated and underutilization in the labor market remains significant," said Yellen. Inflation is running below the 2% objective, and this could pose risks to economic performance. The committee expects inflation to move gradually back toward its objective. Yellen said a wide range of indicators will trigger rate hikes. When asked if the Fed is behind the curve on inflation, Yellen said, "I think recent readings on CPI index have been a bit on the high side but I think it's the data we're seeing is noisy. Broadly speaking inflation is evolving in line with the committee's expectations." Addressing the new faces in the FOMC, Yellen said there's a very slight decline this time the committee's longer-term normal rate of interest projections. "I would caution you however that we've had turnover and 2 new participants are joining" and offering projections, she said. And that can cause small changes that are difficult to interpret. There's been some slight decline of projections pertaining to longer-term growth and typically estimates of the longer-term interest rates would move in line with growth projections. Yellen reiterated that there is uncertainty about MP the timing and pace of rate increases will respond to unfolding economic developments. "If those were to be faster than the Committee expects, we can see a faster rise in the Fed funds rate," but the opposite holds true as well. When asked why we are stuck with slower growth? Yellen said part of the reason we're seeing slower growth is because capital investment has been weak during the downturn and recovery. "As the economy picks up I hope to see that contribution restored." On long-term unemployment, Yellen said, its possible there is some "permanent damage." "We can see what the costs of the financial crisis were. I think the regulations we've put in place, most of which follow from Dodd Frank, are highly appropriate to create a more robust financial system." When asked if she's confident on the economy she said, "Well when you say confident I suppose the answer is no, because there's uncertainty." Yellen reiterated that she would communicate with the public when appropriate. "There is some evidence of reach for yield behavior. This envy of low volatility is on my radar screen," Yellen said. Yellen doesn't think current trends are a threat to stability. "I don't see a broad based rise in leverage, rapid increase in credit growth … the kinds of broad trends that would suggest to me that the level of financial stability risk has risen above a moderate level." On wage inflation, Yellen said "as the labor market begins to tighten, to a point where real wage growth are rising more rapidly than inflation ... so households are getting a real increase in their take home pay. Within limits that's not a threat to inflation." When asked about bond exit fees, Yellen said: "I am not aware of any discussion of that topic inside the Federal Reserve and that's under the purview of the SEC." Here's Yellen's opening statement:  Good afternoon. The Federal Open Market Committee concluded its June meeting earlier today. As was indicated in our policy statement, the Committee decided to make another modest reduction in the pace of its purchases of longer-term securities. The Committee maintained its forward guidance regarding the federal funds rate target and reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. Today’s policy actions reflect the Committee’s assessment that the economy is continuing to make progress toward our objectives of maximum employment and price stability. In the labor market, conditions have improved further. The unemployment rate, at 6.3 percent, is four-tenths lower than at the time of our March meeting, and the broader U-6 measure—which includes marginally attached workers and those working part time but preferring full-time work—has fallen by a similar amount. Even given these declines, however, unemployment remains elevated, and a broader assessment of indicators suggests that underutilization in the labor market remains significant. Although real GDP declined in the first quarter, this decline appears to have resulted mainly from transitory factors. Private domestic final demand—that is, spending by domestic households and businesses—continued to expand in the first quarter, and the limited set of indicators of spending and production in the second quarter have picked up. The Committee thus believes that economic activity is rebounding in the current quarter and will continue to expand at a moderate pace thereafter. Overall, the Committee continues to see sufficient underlying strength in the economy to support ongoing improvement in the labor market. Inflation has continued to run below the Committee’s 2 percent objective, and the Committee remains mindful that inflation running persistently below its objective could pose risks to economic performance. Given that longer-term inflation expectations appear to be well anchored, and in light of the ongoing recovery in the United States and in many economies around the world, the Committee continues to expect inflation to move gradually back toward its objective. The Committee will continue to assess incoming data carefully to ensure that policy is consistent with attaining the FOMC’s longer-run objectives of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. This outlook is reflected in the individual economic projections submitted in conjunction with this meeting by the FOMC participants. As always, each participant’s projections are conditioned on his or her own views of appropriate monetary policy. The central tendency of the unemployment rate projections is slightly lower than in the March projections and now stands at 6.0 to 6.1 percent at the end of this year. From there, Committee participants generally see the unemployment rate declining to its longer-run normal level by the end of 2016. The central tendency of the projections for real GDP growth is 2.1 to 2.3 percent for 2014, down notably from the March projections, largely because of the unexpected contraction in the first quarter. Over the next two years, the projections for real GDP growth remain somewhat above the estimates of longer-run normal growth. Finally, FOMC participants continue to see inflation moving only gradually back toward 2 percent over time as the economy expands. The central tendency of the inflation projections is 1.5 to 1.7 percent in 2014, rising to 1.6 to 2.0 percent in 2016. As I noted at the outset, the Committee decided today to make another measured reduction in the pace of asset purchases. Starting next month, we will be purchasing $35 billion of securities per month, down $10 billion per month from our current rate. Even after today’s action takes effect, we will continue to expand our holdings of longer-term securities, and we will also continue to roll over maturing Treasury securities and reinvest principal payments from the FOMC’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. These sizable and still-increasing holdings will continue to put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and make financial conditions more accommodative, helping to support job creation and a return of inflation to the Committee’s objective. Today’s announced reduction in the pace of asset purchases reflects the Committee’s expectation that progress toward its economic objectives will continue. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee’s expectation of ongoing improvement in labor markets and inflation moving back over time toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely continue to reduce the pace of asset purchases in measured steps at future meetings. However, as I have emphasized before, purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee’s decisions about the pace of purchases remain contingent on its outlook for jobs and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. Let me now turn to the framework we will be applying as we consider interest rate policy. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress—both realized and expected—toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This broad assessment will not hinge on any one or two indicators, but will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. Based on its current assessment of these factors, the Committee anticipates that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. Further, once we begin to remove policy accommodation, it is the Committee’s current assessment that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. This guidance is consistent with the paths for appropriate policy as reported in the participants’ projections, which show the federal funds rate for most participants remaining well below longer-run normal values at the end of 2016. Although FOMC participants provide a number of explanations for the federal funds rate target remaining below its longer-run normal level, many cite the residual effects of the financial crisis. These include restrained household spending, reduced credit availability, and diminished expectations for future growth in output and incomes, consistent with the view that the potential growth rate of the economy may be lower for some time. Let me reiterate, however, that the Committee’s expectation for the path of the federal funds rate target is contingent on the economic outlook. If the economy proves to be stronger than anticipated by the Committee, resulting in a more rapid convergence of employment and inflation to the FOMC’s objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target are likely to occur sooner and to be more rapid than currently envisaged. Conversely, if economic performance disappoints, resulting in larger and more persistent deviations from the Committee’s objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target are likely to take place later and to be more gradual. Before taking your questions, I’d like to provide an update on the Committee’s ongoing discussions on the mechanics of normalizing the stance and conduct of monetary policy. To be clear, these discussions are in no way intended to signal any imminent change in the stance of monetary policy. Rather, they represent prudent planning on the part of the Committee and reflect the Committee’s intention to communicate its plans to the public well before the first steps in normalizing policy become appropriate. The Committee is confident that it has the tools it needs to raise short-term interest rates when it becomes appropriate to do so and to control the level of short-term interest rates thereafter, even though the Federal Reserve will continue to have a very large balance sheet for some time. The Committee’s recent discussions have centered on the appropriate mix of tools to employ during the normalization process and the associated implications for the degree of control over short-term interest rates, the functioning of the federal funds market, and the extent to which the Federal Reserve transacts with financial institutions outside the banking sector. The Committee is constructively working through the many issues related to normalization and will continue its discussions in upcoming meetings, with the expectation of providing additional details later this year. Thank you. I’ll be happy to take your questions. ------- The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) just unveiled its latest monetary policy decision. As expected it moved to cut its monthly asset purchase program by $10 billion to $35 billion. The Fed also kept its interest rate unchanged, though it lowered its GDP forecast. Despite the recent uptick in inflation, its language on inflation was largely unchanged. Basically, the Fed sees no urgency on the part of the FOMC to tighten monetary policy by raising rates, even though unemployment has come down dramatically, and inflation is picking up. We'll have live coverage of Fed chair Janet Yellen's press conference. FREE AppDownload
