401K Calculator via FlickrIs your current healthcare plan costing you more than it should?This post is sponsored by Lincoln Financial Group. Every year, like clockwork, you probably get an email from your company's HR department telling you it's "open enrollment" time and you're able to change your healthcare plan. And there's a good chance that you, along with many of the rest of us, ignore that email. Open enrollment only happens once a year, and if you're defaulting to your current plan because picking a new one seems like too much work, you could be making a mistake. It's important to adjust your health plan to your lifestyle, and it's not just about picking the plan with the lowest deductible. You'll need to think about potential out-of-pocket expenses, any medical procedures you'd like to get done, and prescription coverage, among other things.  Most large companies in the US offer healthcare plans with an annual open enrollment period. We're told to select our plans during the first few weeks of work, but starting a new job is always a whirlwind of to-dos, and many of us choose a plan quickly without really understanding what we're committing to. Open enrollment is the only other opportunity we get to reevaluate our health benefits. During this time, employees can either choose a new plan, or do nothing and let their previous plan roll over to the following year. Some places require you to pick a plan during each open enrollment period, so be sure to find out what your work's policy is. Depending on the company, open enrollment lasts anywhere from one week to one month and usually takes place at the end of the calendar year (between September and December) so that the new plan will begin on Jan. 1. Plans change — and so do you. By not acting, you could potentially lose your insurance if it's not in your company's policy to roll plans over automatically. Even if that's not the case, your premium might have gone up, or your needs might be different now. Maybe you're considering getting LASIK. Perhaps you've had some problems with your back and you know you'll be making frequent trips to your doctor. The bottom line is that aside from a "qualifying life event" like getting married or having a baby, the open enrollment period is your only chance to adjust your health plan, so you may as well use this time to reevaluate your priorities and options. Before or during open enrollment, ask yourself these three questions to help you decide which plan you want to go with. If you decide to explore other plans, don't be overwhelmed. Break the process down into steps and cross them off as you go. Here are some checklist items to help you get started. Learn more about employee benefits and insurance plans at Lincoln Financial Group's website. Find out more about Sponsored Content. FREE AppDownload
