Nobel Prize The Nobel Prize in chemistry was awarded to Eric Betzig, Stefan W. Hell, and William E. Moerner on Wednesday morning for "the development of super-resolved fluorescence microscopy." "The work of the laureates has made it possible to study molecular processes in real time," Sven Lidin, a professor at Lund University in Sweden, said in a press conference.  For a large part of the 20th century, scientists believed that optical microscopes were limited to a maximum resolution of 0.2 micrometers, or about half the wavelength of the light. This made it possible to see whole cells and parts of cells, but still impossible to make out incredibly tiny things, like single protein molecules inside living cells. Nobel PrizeErnst Abe defined the limit for optical microscopes to roughly  0.2 micrometers in 1873. Hell, Betzig, and Moerner, working independently, overcame this challenge, using fluorescent molecules to see proton resolution at much smaller scales — kind of like how a flashlight would work to illuminate where really small bits of dust are located.  Stefan Hell, from the University of Heidelberg in Germany, was the first to develop a principle that laid the foundation for a field now known as nanoscropy. In Hell's method, called stimulated emission depletion, two laser beams are used. One light pulse excites the fluorescent molecules and causes them to glow. The other light pulse blocks out all the florescence from molecules that are larger than nanometer-sized. "Scanning over the sample, nanometer for nanometer, yields an image with a resolution better than Abbe’s stipulated limit," The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences explained in a statement. (Abbe is the guy who first came up with 0.2 micrometer limit in the late 19th century).  Later, Moerner, of Stanford University, would become the world's first scientists to measure the light absorption of a single molecule. Betzig, from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Ashburn, Virginia, would come up with a method for superimposing images, which produced an even better resolution image at the nanolevel.  In the graphic below, an image of lysosome membranes (left) taken using a traditional optical microscope is compared to the same image taken using single-molecule microscopy (center). See the difference? Nobel Prize The benefit of nanoscroy is that it enables scientists to see how cells work, meaning they can understand  disease at the cellular level and ultimately develop better treatments. A press release explains: "They can see how molecules create synapses between nerve cells in the brain; they can track proteins involved in Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s and Huntington’s diseases as they aggregate; they follow individual proteins in fertilized eggs as these divide into embryos" An amount of $1.11 million will be split equally among the Laureates.  On Tuesday, the Nobel Prize in physics was awarded to Isamu Akasaki, Hiroshi Amano, and Shuji Nakamura for inventing the blue light-emitting diode, an energy-efficient light source. On Monday, John O'Keefe and husband-wife team Edvard and May-Britt Moser split the Nobel Prize in medicine for "their discoveries of cells that constitute a positioning system in the brain." FREE AppDownload
