Spencer Platt/GettyPeople wait in line to file taxes last-minute.Taxes are often an overlooked, but very real, cost of investing. And while there’s still a lot of time before April 15, there’s likely some tax preparation you need to do before the year ends. Here’s what you need to know, from The Blog. In today’s low yield and high tax environment, every dollar counts. That’s why constructing the most tax efficient, low cost and diversified portfolio is essential. Even if you’re seeing excellent pre-tax returns in your portfolio, it doesn’t mean much if it evaporates on an after tax basis. Let’s take a look at an example. The chart below shows the impact of a 1% annual tax “cost” on a $100,000 portfolio. We see the portfolio grow at an 8% annualized return over ten years. At 0% tax costs, the portfolio balance would have grown to nearly $216,000 at the end of the decade. But, with a 1% tax cost, the investor has an out of pocket expense of more than $20,000 over the same period. Blackrock Blog So how realistic is this example? A 1% tax cost is pretty comparable, as the long-term average annual tax cost for stock mutual funds over the last ten years was 0.9%. The average annual tax cost for bond funds over the same period was 1.6%.** Given those real costs, it can really pay to plan ahead for your tax bill. Here are 5 things you can do going into yearend to reduce your 2014 tax bill: Another great way to employ the best strategy for your portfolio: discuss your options with a tax advisor. * Source: BlackRock. For illustrative purposes only. Does not include commissions or sales charges or fees. Ending balances assume the tax liability of 1% is paid out of fund assets each year. ** Source: Morningstar, as of 3/31/14. “Tax cost” is a Morningstar measure of the impact of taxes on capital gains and income distributions on performance. Averages are calculated using the oldest share class of all Open-End Mutual Funds available in the U.S. (excluding municipal bond and money market funds) with 10 year track records as of 3/31/14. Rob Nestor, head of iShares Retail Product Strategy at BlackRock, contributed to this article.  FREE AppDownload
