Thomson ReutersFile photo of Apple CEO Tim Cook speaking during an Apple event announcing the Apple Watch at the Flint Center in Cupertino (Reuters) - Apple Inc supplier GT Advanced Technologies Inc told a U.S. court it was barred from disclosing why it filed for bankruptcy, saying the company was "tied up in knots" by a confidentiality agreement. At the first public hearing since GT's unexpected Monday bankruptcy filing, a lawyer for the company told the court that the agreement prevented it from revealing its Chapter-11 gameplan. GT Advanced has a deal with Apple that involves outfitting an Arizona factory to make scratch-resistant sapphire glass exclusively for the iPhone maker. The iPhone maker, which zealously guards the secrecy of its product pipeline, has been known in general to place strict confidentiality requirements on its many suppliers. Thursday's request highlights the highly unusual nature of the case, starting with GT’s bankruptcy filing, which caught everyone from Wall Street investors to Apple itself off guard. Luc Despins of Paul Hastings told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Henry Boroff an unspecified confidentiality agreement prevented GT from disclosing cause of its bankruptcy, or its plan for dealing with the bankruptcy. He also acknowledged the 90 percent drop in the company’s stock price in the first three trading days of this week. “I want to convey to all shareholders and creditors that the company feels terrible about that loss of value and will work everyday to recover that value,” he said. “That’s an aspirational statement, not a guarantee.” A lawyer from the Office of the U.S. Trustee, a bankruptcy watchdog in the Department of Justice, criticized the lack of disclosure by GT. “The record is insufficient for the court to find what the court needs to find.” GT Advanced  Apple said on Wednesday that it was surprised with the bankruptcy filing and that it was working with Arizonaofficials on its next moves. GT Advanced has offered little explanation for its surprise bankruptcy filing, which led to its stock falling more than 90 percent on Monday, wiping out nearly all of its $1.5 billion market worth. Earlier on Thursday, GT Advanced had asked the bankruptcy court to keep under seal a separate request for the court to keep private some key documents relating to a third party. It said this would allow it to avoid paying damages under confidentiality agreements. But it did not disclose the identity of the third party nor the nature of the potential contract violations. And in the filing with a U.S. bankruptcy court in New Hampshire, the company also asked that the hearing to deal with this request be held "in camera," or closed to the public. "GTAT recognizes the unusual (and perhaps unprecedented) nature of the request made in this Motion," the company said in the filing. GT Advanced said it was compelled to make the request to avoid the risk of paying damages of $50 million per violation. On Thursday, shares of GT Advanced were up 13.6 percent at $1.25 on Nasdaq. The case is In re: GT Advanced Technologies Inc, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of New Hampshire, No: 14-11916.  (Editing by Ted Kerr, Robin Paxton and W Simon) FREE AppDownload
