REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth Pedestrian walk past houses in London October 7, 2013.Swaths of the capital risk becoming “ghost towns” because overseas investors buy properties and leave them vacant, according to the European boss of the world’s second largest estate agent London has become the property “safe haven of the world”, according to the European boss of the world’s second largest estate agent, though swaths of the capital risk becoming “ghost towns” because overseas investors buy properties and leave them vacant. Christian Ulbrich, European chief executive of Jones Lang LaSalle, said a “whole spectrum” of overseas investors, attracted by London’s status as the gateway to America and Asia, would push the average price of a London home above £500,000 next year. “London is not only the safe haven of the world, it is also developing into one of the hottest cities in the world,” Mr Ulbrich told The Daily Telegraph. “It’s a great mix of a very liveable city, a city that offers fantastic opportunities and a very safe place to invest.” He said turbulence in emerging markets such as Brazil had resulted in massive investment inflows into developed markets, particularly Europe. “Where does it go first? It’s London,” said Mr Ulbrich. “Unlike elsewhere, I haven’t come across anybody who has said to me: 'I won’t invest there’.” The Office for National Statistics says the average price of a UK home is £248,000, rising to £441,000 in London. Mr Ulbrich said he expected the upward price trend in London to continue, though he dismissed concerns that a combination of low interest rates and government schemes such as Help to Buy was creating a UK-wide bubble. However, he warned that demand for multi-million-pound homes had created “ghost towns” in some of the most affluent parts of London. “What I am concerned about in London is that a lot of high-end residential property is being sold to people who are not using it for themselves – and they’re not even renting it. It’s just vacant because it’s a safe haven for their money. When you walk by our offices in Mayfair in the evening, it’s just a dark and lonely place because there is no life in the street. This is a growing trend.” Mr Ulbrich said it was difficult to stop this practice as punitive measures such as a tax on vacant properties was unlikely to be an effective deterrent. "It is something local communities have to deal with, because it can develop an area into a wrong direction. "You have countries that put a tax on vacant properties - in Germany they do that. But that wont solve the problem in London because the people who buy a flat in Mayfair for £10m and leave it vacant wont be scared away by a tax of £10,000 or £20,000. It's not easy to find a solution." According to Jones Lang LaSalle’s City Momentum Index, London extended its position as Europe’s most dynamic major city over the past three months. It was second only to San Francisco in terms of short-term price rises.   FREE AppDownload
