REUTERS/Shannon StapletonPeople wait in line to enter a job fair in New York April 18, 2012. State unemployment insurance officials warned Senate leaders on Wednesday a pending bill to extend unemployment insurance would be extremely difficult to implement, a development that threatens to stall momentum for the bill in the Senate and kill its chances of being considered in the House.  In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, the National Association of State Workforce Agencies (NASWA) — a group that represents state unemployment insurance directors — said the bill would "substantially increase the administrative burden on states." The letter argued some of the bill's provisions would "cause considerable delays in the implementation of the program and increased administrative issues and costs.".  "Some states have indicated they might decide such changes are not feasible in the short time available, and therefore would consider not signing the U.S. Department of Labor's agreement to operate the program," the letter said. NASWA pointed to four specific issues with the legislation, which could be voted on as soon as next week. The bill would retroactively extend unemployment benefits to about 1.3 million Americans. However, NASWA warned by the time some states will be ready to implement the legislation, the bill's extension will already have expired because of technical problems with states' "antiquated" computer systems and other administrative issues. Furthermore, the organization also argued a provision ending the extension of benefits to anyone who made more than $1 million the previous year would be "very hard to administer," since the current unemployment insurance system does not collect information on individuals' gross incomes.  Senate negotiators have wrangled for months over a compromise on extending the unemployment benefits. But even if the bill passes through the Senate, the new letter makes it even more unlikely the Republican-controlled House would take up the bill.  "Based on this report, we don’t think the Senate should pass the Senate bill – let alone the House," a House GOP aide told Business Insider. House Speaker John Boehner's office blasted out the report along with a statement from Boehner, in which he said the bill was "unworkable." "Frankly, a better use of the Senate’s time would be taking up and passing the dozens of House-passed jobs bills still awaiting action," Boehner said.  Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid, shot back at Boehner Wednesday afternoon. "We believe the concerns that have been expressed are resolvable and we look forward to Speaker Boehner coming to the table to find solutions," Jentleson said. "It is hard to imagine Speaker Boehner simply walking away from the thousands of people in Ohio who lost their jobs through no fault of their own and need this lifeline to make ends meet while they continue to look for work." Here's the full letter from NASWA President Mark Henry: Senate Letter on EUC Extension, S. 2148, Final  This post has been updated. FREE AppDownload
