btckeychainThanks to intriguing stories of quickly-made fortunes, online drug sales and financial scandals, everyone has heard of Bitcoin. Strangely, nobody knows who created it. It all began with a paper written by "Satoshi Nakamoto" and quietly published via a cryptography mailing list in 2008. The author laid out a plan for an " electronic payment system based on cryptographic proof instead of trust ". It was methodical, neat and sagely predicted future problems. It was also well-written in perfect English. Clearly this was no sketch on a napkin: it took intelligence, experience and time. But Satoshi Nakamoto was a pseudonym - a male Japanese name that loosely translates as “wise”. No such person exists. The paper may have one author or many, but whoever it was has diligently kept it secret for years. And they left precious little in the way of clues. There was an email address in the paper: satoshin@gmx.com. In the early days someone would reply and answer technical questions. It also pointed to a website, www.bitcoin.org, but the domain had been purchased through an anonymous service. In some correspondence he had used the phrase “bloody hard”, steering us away from an American towards a Briton. Clever analysis of when he made appearances online suggested that he was usually asleep from 5am to 11am GMT, contradictorily suggesting an American - or a nocturnal programmer. At other times he claimed to be 37 and confirmed that he was Japanese, but this was met with skepticism because of his use of slang. Oddly, he once left a link to a Times article in the blockchain, possibly to add weight to its dating. Satoshi was extremely active in the development of the open-source software which powers Bitcoin. But towards the end of 2010, perhaps sensing that the project had gathered enough momentum to survive his withdrawal, he started to fade away. The last thing anybody ever heard from him was in April 2011 when he emailed a Bitcoin contributor and said he had “moved on to other things”. Because of his early involvement in bitcoin, Satoshi is thought to be extremely wealthy. New Bitcoins are "mined" by performing complex cryptographic calculations which also serve to authenticate transactions. In the early days Bitcoins were far easier to mine than they now are, and worth far less. Security researcher Sergio Demian Lerner believes - but can’t categorically prove - that Satoshi mined around 1,000,000BTC and has never spent any . At a price of $1,000 each, that would make him worth around a billion dollars - around the same as the GDP of the Seychelles. Considering his immense wealth and integral role in launching one of the largest economic experiments ever conducted, it’s not surprising that lots of people have tried to uncover Satoshi's real identity. The most recent of many theories comes from Josh Zerlan, chief operating officer of Butterfly Labs, the makers of specific hardware to mine bitcoins. Speaking to IBTimes UK at a bitcoin conference in India, he said: "One of the prevailing theories, I think has credibility, is that it was some group of people from financial sector that created this. They released it and stepped back and let it go. So, Satoshi Nakamoto is a group of people, I think, is a reasonable possibility." He names no names, or explains what their motivation would be. The New Yorker published a piece pointing at two possible Satoshis, one of whom seemed particularly plausible: a cryptography graduate student from Trinity College, Dublin, who had gone on to work in currency-trading software for a bank and published a paper on peer-to-peer technology. The other was a Research Fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, Vili Lehdonvirta. Both made denials. Fast Company highighted an encryption patent application filed by three researchers - Charles Bry, Neal King and Vladimir Oks­man - and a circumstantial link involving textual analysis of it and the Satoshi paper which found the phrase "...computationally impractical to reverse" in both. Again, it was flatly denied. All three men also collaborated on a second paper backed by a Munich-based firm called Lantiq. The company was founded in 2009, the same year that the Bitcoin paper was first published, but did not answer phone calls or reply to emails when I tried to ask if there was any link. This year two Israeli mathematicians wrote a paper claiming that there was a link between Satoshi Nakamoto, the mythical creator of Bitcoin, and Ross Ulbricht, who has been arrested and charged with running the underground online drugs market Silk Road. They claimed, after analyzing the blockchain, that there was a financial link, but later issued a statement retracting it after their claims were debunked by a Reddit user. But all of these accusations have gotten us no closer to the truth. Jeff Garzick was one of the core of software engineers who latched on to Bitcoin when it emerged and helped to protect it from attacks, guided its future direction and released new versions of the client software. He was a developer for Linux distribution Red Hat when he was headhunted by Bitcoin processing firm BitPay this May. He now works on the crypto-currency full-time. Speaking to CoinDesk he said: “Satoshi was a fantastic designer and architect. He spent a couple of years thinking about the system, and then according to what he said, he had to write the system to prove to himself that it would work.” But he also said that the early version of Bitcoin was "a jumble of source code". “He was the oracle to which we would go for questions about the system, but he rarely followed standard engineering practices, like writing unit or stress tests or any of the standard qualitative analysis that we’d perform on software. Several things had to be disabled almost immediately upon public release of Bitcoin because they were obviously exploitable.” Sentiment in the more paranoid parts of the cryptography community is that the NSA is a potential creator, as the protocol leaves a permanent trail of transactions that could be a very useful tool for law enforcement. Certainly, anonymity is one of the biggest myths about Bitcoin. In fact, there has never been a more easily traceable method of payment. Every single transaction is recorded and retained permanently in the public “blockchain”. The idea that the NSA would create an anarchic, peer-to-peer crypto-currency in the hope that it would be adopted for nefarious industries and become easy to track would have been a lot more difficult to believe before the recent leaks by Edward Snowden and the revelation that billions of phone calls had been intercepted by the US security services. We are now in a world where we now know that the NSA was tracking the pornography habits of Islamic “radicalizes” in order to discredit them and making deals with some of the world’s largest internet firms to insert backdoors into their systems. There are precedents, too. The Tor anonymous browsing tool was originally sponsored by the US Naval Research Laboratory and, as of last year, 80 per cent of the project's $2m annual budget comes from the US government. And the SHA-2 cryptographic functions that are a core part of the Bitcoin network, as well as many others including the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols which encrypt much of the sensitive data you bounce back and forward online every day, were originally designed by the NSA. In the interests of fair play, I asked the NSA: did they create bitcoin? A couple of weeks later I got a one-line reply: “Given the volume of media requests that we’re handling, I can’t assist you with your research at this time.” A second email the next day suggested that I speak to Tim Carver, a professor of computer science at Trine University, with no explanation as to why. So I emailed him, and got a reply denying any link with the NSA, explaining that he was doing research on Bitcoin and offering his own thoughts on who Satoshi was: “I can only offer an opinion. Having read Satoshi’s original work, the paper has the voice of a single person. “Some papers I have read over the years are obviously written by multiple people. Imagine an article written by Stephen Hawking and John Cleese. Both are very intelligent men, but with different presentation styles. Two different voices. Satoshi’s paper is, in my opinion, one voice. I don’t know who’s voice it is, but it has the sound of only one.” Ultimately, we may never know who Satoshi was, but his legacy is a crypto-currency that doesn’t rely on us trusting him. Whether he was an anarchist, a security agency or a group of altruistic researchers, Bitcoin remains a valuable a tool. But his possible wealth leaves us with a very strange problem: if he does have 1,000,000BTC - more than four per cent of all the coins that will ever exist - what does he plan to do with them? The market has come to the conclusion that these are no longer a factor: their creation and destruction just a necessary step in getting Bitcoin up and running. If one day he spends even just a tiny fraction of a single bitcoin - remember that all of these transactions are public - it will show the market that they are still in play. What will that do to the price, the market and the protocol? Given that scenario, it suddenly feels even more important to know who Satoshi is and what his motivation was for creating a digital currency.  FREE AppDownload
