Take the conduct of monetary policy, which has been a focal point for market anxiety over the last several months, but no more so than after last week's extremely aggressive interest rate hikes by Turkey's central bank, which have raised more questions than answers. With continued pressure on EM currencies, the perception is that other developing economies which hitherto have yet to raise rates — yet whose currencies are under the cosh — will be forced to follow suit. A cursory glance at the monetary policy landscape in EMs suggests this is too hasty a conclusion. Romania's central bank, which has been intervening in the currency markets to prop up the leu, trimmed rates today by a further 25 basis points to a record low of 3.5%. Its Hungarian counterpart, which is under pressure to hike rates because of the weakness of the forint, is more likely to loosen policy further at this month's rate-setting meeting on February 18 than to start tightening it. While inflation is running at 7.5% in Turkey, it's a meagre 0.4% in Hungary. Turkey has a large current account deficit and a slowing economy, while Hungary has an external surplus and an economic recovery that's gathering pace. As for fund flows, the most closely watched data for EMs given the scale of the outflows from equity and bond funds this year, a bit of perspective is in order. In the bond markets, the data is heavily skewed by redemptions from mutual funds — particularly Europe and U.S.-based ones — and masks the continued inflows of institutional money which, for the time being, is staying put. Indeed, even in the more vulnerable EMs, such as Turkey and Indonesia, foreign holdings of local currency debt have not fallen significantly, suggesting that more sophisticated and less footloose institutional investors are still buying EM debt. While the recent phase of the sell-off has been indiscriminate, and there are plenty of reasons — both country-specific as well as China and U.S. Federal Reserve-related — to be concerned about EMs, this is not a full-blown crisis. Differentiation remains the watchword, and it's time the term "emerging markets" was jettisoned. This article originally appeared at Spiro Sovereign Strategy.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
