Wikimedia CommonsBuenos AiresArgentines could be forgiven for being a little down these days. There’s the World Cup, for starters. And then there’s the fact that the country is fighting tooth and nail with international creditors over $1.5 billion in soured bonds. Of course, things can change. Argentine officials have every incentive to work out a deal, but they better hurry: time is running out. This isn’t their first debt payment rodeo. Argentina defaulted on $95 billion in external debt in late 2001, ushering in a period of sharp currency devaluation, inflation, increased poverty and foreign capital flight. The country’s inability to fully right the ship in the 13 years since hasn’t restored much confidence either. In 2005 and again in 2010, though, the country agreed on a bond exchange for 92 percent of the original debt it defaulted on, and it has so far remained current on those obligations. But the remaining 8 percent is still very much a factor: Argentina says that paying all holdouts in full would cost approximately $15 billion including interest and penalties. Among the holdouts are U.S. hedge funds Elliott Management Corp., Aurelis Capital Management LP and Olifant Fund. They’ve sued for full repayment, and a U.S. district judge in 2012 ordered Argentina to pay them what now amounts to some $1.5 billion. Late last month, Argentina tried to make a $539 million payment that was due to the restructured bondholders, but the judge forbade it to do so until it had compensated the holdouts, and the payment was halted. The bonds stipulate that the country has a 30-day grace period—until July 30—to pay or fall into default yet again. But with less than two weeks to go, government officials and the holdouts seem to be putting more energy into ramping up their repayment rhetoric than into negotiations. Still, Argentina has quite an incentive to reach a deal. Settling with the holdouts is the primary remaining obstacle for the country to regain access to international markets the country has been shut out of for more than a decade. Doing so would likely increase capital inflows and lower the cost of borrowing at a time when Argentina is grappling with declining foreign reserves and one of the world’s highest inflation rates. Tapping into new sources of financing could help Argentina fund its fiscal deficit without having to print money, which would have the dual benefit of slowing inflation and relieving pressure on the currency. A deal would also help sentiment among Argentines tired of the drawn-out default drama. Judging by its recent conduct, the country does seem to want to put the drama to bed once and for all. In May, it agreed to pay $9.7 billion over five years to the Paris Club of creditor nations to settle claims from the 2001 default. It also reached a deal to pay Spanish oil company Repsol SA $5 billion for assets it expropriated two years ago. “Its willingness to settle these cases can be interpreted as a sign that getting back to the market is critical for them,” says Casey Reckman, a vice president in Emerging Markets Economics Research for Credit Suisse. “Ultimately, it makes more sense for Argentina to negotiate a settlement.” The best-case scenario is one in which Argentina pays off as much of its debt as possible through the issuance of new bonds, obviating the need for spending any of its dwindling foreign reserves, which recently stood at $29 billion. Risk-seeking investors have been encouraged by these olive branches to foreign creditors, and a settlement with the holdouts would likely boost investor confidence even more. According to Daniel Chodos, an emerging markets fixed income strategist at Credit Suisse, a deal could lower yields on the Discount ’33 bond, Argentina’s benchmark, to between 6 and 7 percent — still much higher than comparable Brazilian 10-year bond yields of 4.3 percent – but well below their current level of around 10 percent. Of course, Argentina could still dig in its heels and let the rest of the month pass in standoff mode. And in the event they miss the 30-day deadline, the peso will likely weaken, inflation could accelerate and domestic demand could take a hit. They would then be in a position known as “soft default” — one driven by a legal squabble and not an actual inability to pay. If they can come to terms on a settlement, though, Argentina would presumably be able to quickly exit default status. That’s quite different from its hard default in 2001, when the country was dead broke. It also took four years—ironically, the time between World Cups—before it was able to come to terms with the majority of creditors on the restructuring. So why not just pay the holdouts and get it over with, especially since Argentina has the reserves to afford it? Officials say that would set a dangerous precedent that could encourage the other holdout creditors to seek full repayment – in cash – which they estimate would cost as much as $15 billion. “That’s very unlikely to happen,” Reckman says. “For everyone, the incentives are aligned to reach a settlement.” But the clock is ticking. FREE AppDownload
