This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   ShutterstockIf this is how you feel when your spreadsheet ties, read on!We're looking for a Finance Director to support our executive team with financial reporting, budgeting, forecasting, accounting, and analysis. You will manage a small team (currently one person) and will be expected to streamline finance operations to ensure sustained growth, including helping to set up our international operations. This is a new position at the company and we're looking for someone with strong initiative and can-do attitude. Digital chops are critical. The essence of this role is owning the finance and accounting function at Business Insider. This entails reporting, metrics, analytical models, forecasts, budgets, audits, and 409a. You'll oversee AP, AR, and P&amp;L functions and will sign off on the month-end close and manage the cap table. You will maintain strong internal financial controls and handle corporate finance activities such as debt and equity. In addition, you will oversee the offices (NYC headquarters and regional offices in San Francisco and London) as well as the administrative aspects of HR. Who's Right For The Job?  If you're interested in joining a cutting-edge media company as it expands its revenue streams and grows internationally, then this is a great role for you. The ideal candidate will be organized, resourceful, and self-motivated. You should be interested in digital technology and an avid reader of business news. Some specific requirements: Skills &amp; Experience: If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you should have: The finance director will report to the President/COO. The role is full time and based in our New York City offices. About Business Insider Business Insider is one of the fastest-growing business media companies, with more than 40 million readers per month. Formed in 2007, BI was built for the digital age, offering real-time coverage of tech, finance, and general business news. BI reaches the next generation of business leaders. You can learn about our recent performance here.   FREE AppDownload
