REUTERS/HardmanLately, black gold looks more like black pyrite. The price of Brent crude began falling in late June, and dropped below $100 a barrel in September – and it’s on track for a double digit quarter average for the first time since January 2011. All-in, the price of oil has declined 25 percent from a June 19 peak of $115.19 to $86.36 in mid-October. What’s behind the plunge? The price of a commodity can fall for two reasons—too little demand or too much supply. Or both. While demand from Europe and Japan has been sluggish of late, oversupply is what’s really driving prices lower. A remarkably successful effort over the last five years to extract oil from previously untappable shale beds in North Dakota and Texas has flooded the U.S. market with oil. The U.S. shale revolution, no longer just a local phenomenon, is putting downward pressure on global oil markets, and Credit Suisse believes it will continue to do so for at least the next three years. Oil production outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has grown an average of 800,000 barrels per day each year since 2009. The United States, where oil production rose from 5.3 million barrels per day in 2009 to 7.4 million in 2013, is the single biggest driver of that growth. The Obama Administration is considering lifting a ban on crude oil exports, but for now, American crude stays at home. As a result, the U.S. needs less foreign oil. Imports fell from 12.9 million barrels per day in 2009 to 9.9 million in 2013, even as the economy improved dramatically. (They may not be exporting crude, but American refineries have built a booming business shipping out diesel fuel and other refined products.) All that said, all signs pointed to a global supply crunch as recently as June, when the militant group ISIL launched a devastating offensive in the key oil-producing region of northern Iraq. As a result, says Credit Suisse Global Energy Economist Jan Stuart, speculators bid up prices. But oil production in southern Iraq was never affected, and the Iraqi Army (with foreign assistance) began to make headway against ISIL. Meanwhile, Libyan oil exports, which had stopped entirely since the summer of 2013 as the post-Gadhafi  civil war intensified, began to re-enter markets in July. By  August with the country’s largest export terminal re-opened for business after a year offline, flows averaged more than 500,000 barrels per day. Through it all, global crude oil inventories actually rose rather than fell, as they usually do in summer, partly due to increasingly efficient refineries. In August, as it became clear that markets were actually oversupplied, oil prices that had been slowly weakening since late June suddenly began to sell off dramatically. Markets remain bearish. Oil prices for future delivery remain higher than spot prices, a so-called contango situation that reflects a supply surplus and the ongoing incentive to build inventory. Credit Suisse energy analysts expect average Brent crude prices of $92 in the fourth quarter. Weak economic data out of Europe and China augurs softer demand, while both Libya and Iraq delivered higher oil production than previously estimated  in August and September. Further out, Stuart expects the growth pace of the U.S. oil boom to level off in 2015 and 2016, but says crude oil production alone should still grow by more than 1 million barrels per day each year. Energy analysts have lowered their forecasts for Brent crude to an average of $91.50 in 2015, $90 in 2016, and $88 in 2017. Meanwhile, the price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil produced in the U.S. is expected to average $86 in the fourth quarter of 2014, $84.50 in 2015, $82 in 2016, and $81 in 2017. Those forecasts are a radical departure from the triple-digit prices of the last four years, but prices could slide even further if Saudi Arabia maintains current production levels. If Saudi Arabia doesn’t cut production, WTI prices could fall to $70 a barrel. At that level, Stuart says, U.S. exploration and production activity would decline quickly, with the number of completed wells falling by at least 11 percent and production growth falling by a third to 740,000 barrels per day. Crucially, however, growth wouldn’t deflate entirely, and would re-accelerate quickly once prices rise again.  In the end, Stuart believes the kingdom will cut oil production as soon as next month, and will keep production toward the bottom end of its comfort range in 2015. Saudi officials have repeatedly said that they  prefer stability above all else, and that oil prices close to $100 per barrel makes everyone “happy.” FREE AppDownload
