screenshot/Thai TV"All radio and television stations, satellite and cable, must stop normal programming and broadcast army content until told otherwise," Winthai Suvaree, a deputy army spokesman, said in a televised statement. Thailand's army chief appeared on every TV channel in the kingdom and declared the army is taking control of the government to restore order and push through reforms. "In order for the situation to return to normal quickly and for society to love and be at peace again ... and to reform the structure of the political, economic and social structure, the military needs to take control of power," Army Chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha told the country, adding that civil servants and military personnel should remain at their stations. The constitution has been suspended. Soldiers removed antigovernment protest leader Suthep Thaugsuban from a meeting of all political factions as hundreds of troops arrived at sites to clear protesters. However, the leader of the pro-government "red shirts" said they would continue their rally on the outskirts of Bangkok. "Will you fight or will you not fight? We will not go anywhere. Don't panic because we expected this," Jatuporn Prompan told supporters of former Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. "Whatever happens will happen." Thai soldiers fired into the air to disperse thousands of pro-government protesters and detained a leader, Reuters reports. At 6:15 p.m. local time (7:15 a.m. EST), the army declared a nationwide curfew from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. REUTERS/Athit PerawongmethaThai soldiers stand guard during a coup at the Army Club where Thailand's army chief held a meeting with all rival factions in central Bangkok May 22, 2014. The coup d'état comes two days after the military declared martial law across the country after months of antigovernment protests that left 28 people dead and ousted prime minister and telecommunications tycoon Thaksin Shinawatra earlier this month.  The red-shirt loyalists, backed by Shinawatra, had warned of violence if the subsequent caretaker government was overthrown. The Thai military has staged 18 successful or attempted coups since 1932. An economic hub for Southeast Asia, Thailand has been gripped by off-and-on political turmoil since 2006. The economy shrank 0.6% year on year in the first quarter of this year, the first such contraction since 2011, and GDP contracted 2.1% in January-March from the previous three months. Global markets barely budged on the news. Political gridlock has been the norm this year: Protesters blocked voting of an election held in February, and last week the country's Election Commission said that a general election scheduled for July 20 was "no longer possible" amid the turmoil. Here is the U.S. government's position as of May 20, as stated by Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Daniel Russel to Congress: U.S. government FREE AppDownload
