IIFJamie DimonJamie Dimon has returned! The JPMorgan CEO spoke on a panel today at the Institute of International Finance in Washington. It was his first public appearance since he announced he has throat cancer, back in July. Dimon was on the panel, titled the Future of Finance, with Tim Adams, the CEO of the IIF, James Gorman, the CEO of Morgan Stanley, Brian Moynihan, the CEO of Bank of America, and Anshu Jain, the Co-CEO of Deutsche Bank. The panelists covered a variety of topics related to the future of the industry, including regulatory concerns, the global economy, technological disruption, cyber security, and Wall Street's image issues.  On the economy, Dimon mentioned that he thinks "America's chugging along," although income inequality continues to be a problem. "Until we are doing better for everybody, you’re going to have some of this sour attitude [about the economy]," he said. Gorman said that he doesn't think a Fed rate increase is going to be bad for business — in fact, he thinks the opposite. A rate increase means the economy is growing, he said, and that's good for the banks. On technology, Dimon said banks need to be conscious of using new technology and big data to improve the business for both the bank (things like using big data for information about borrowers) and the customer (things like mobile payments and real-time money movement). On the later point, he stated he thought moving money in real time could be a reality within a few months.   This isn't just about young customers, either, said Moynihan. "Fifty-five year old people are doing what millennials were doing 24 months ago. That creek [between them] is shrinking and drying up quickly." Dimon is bearish on bitcoin. "Regulators aren't going to like it because they can't control it," he said, adding that widespread bitcoin adoption isn't "about the technology. It’s about governments."Toward the end of the conversation, Dimon was pushed on two issues that JPMorgan has run into problems with recently: cyber security and Wall Street culture. On the former he thinks, "this is a big deal, there are going to be a lot of battles," some of which the banks are going to lose. However, he said, "the money is safe." As for the Wall Street culture, the solution, said Dimon, is to "minimize the number of bad apples." As for the ones who slip through? Fire them. FREE AppDownload
