REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders watch their screens on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, September 19, 2008. U.S. stocks soared on Friday, led by a surge in financial shares, as a series of sweeping steps to contain fallout from the credit crisis eased investor worries. Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a summary of what traders are talking about right now: Good Morning!  Tuesday another rally day – as 13 of the last 15 Tuesdays are in the green now, helping the Russell get back upside 200dma - US Futures are jumping higher again this AM – Earnings providing some fuel today, with KO, INTC, CSX and YHOO all higher.   Dovish commentary from Japan, coupled with EU Inflation printing near 5Y lows – has the “QE” trade on globally.    In Europe, the DAX is up 1% in average volume, led by a 1.5% run in the EU banks as regulatory hurdles pass.   Most focus was on China, where their GDP beats expectations, but comes in at a 2Y+ low.  Aussie was able to shrug off the slowdown, and Miners moved higher as BHP Billiton beats and is planning to boost iron ore production - Thanks to dovish chatter from their Finance Minister - Japan leapt 3% from near a 6M low.   Focus today will be on earnings, we have ABT, BAC, USB before the open today – AXP, COF, GOOGL, IBM after the close.  Keep an eye on the Momentum Sectors, specifically Biotech – as we have a big First Trust ETF rebalance tomorrow (FBT), and we could see meaningful covers starting as we approach earnings for the IBB members as 16 names, comprising 45% of the IBB’s weight, report earnings next week. The 10YY is higher, but remains under yesterday’s peaks, as focus shifts toward Yellen’s speech today at 12:15 and the Beige Book at 2pm.   The Yen has broken down sharply against the $, but despite the inflation print, € has a nice bid against the Greenback.   Overall, the DXY is weaker, providing a tailwind for commodities – despite the China slowdown, we are seeing a rally in Copper, Silver and Gold – While the Energy Complex is popping despite API data showing a big build – DOE today at 10:30 expected to show a inventory pop of 1.5million barrels.  Softs continue to rally, led by a 2% pop in Soybeans, one of the better performing Agriculture commodities YTD.    Aside from the aforementioned, some catalysts scheduled today includes Housing Starts, Building Permits and Industrial Production for March at 8:30, The Bank of Canada Rate Decision at 10, A Small POMO at 11, Fed's Lockhart Gives Closing Remarks on Financial Markets at 11:30, and Fed's Fisher Speaks on the Economy at 1:25. FREE AppDownload
