REUTERS/CDICA Chinese soldier takes part in a drill during a heavy snow in Heihe, Heilongjiang provinceGood morning! Here's what you need to know. The Chinese yuan takes its largest drop since 2005. The yuan fell 0.9% to a 10-month low of 6.1808 per dollar in Shanghai. "FX sales data released this week point to continued strong capital inflows in January, and there are no signs of large capital outflows or sharp deterioration in fundamentals in recent weeks," Jian Chang at Barclays wrote in a note to clients. "This supports the view that the recent CNY devaluation was mostly guided by the PBoC to deter speculative capital inflows, rather than due to capital outflows on concerns of China risks" Mt. Gox files for bankruptcy. The Bitcoin exchange's chief executive Mark Karpeles blamed "a weakness in our system" at a press conference in Japan, where the company was based. Mt. Gox froze withdrawals earlier this month after weeks of glitches and issues, and now many in the Bitcoin world are worried they lost their holdings in what was once the world's largest Bitcoin exchange. It's a packed day of economic data, starting with U.S. GDP at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists expect Q4 GDP was revised down from 2.5% to 3.2%. "Substantial downward adjustments to core ex auto retail sales in November and  December, which recast the holiday shopping season as slow instead of strong, pointed to a downward revision to consumption to +2.8% from +3.3%," wrote Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Lower results than BEA assumed for December international trade and wholesale inventories should lower the initially estimated +1.3pp net exports and +0.4pp inventories contributions by 0.2pp each." Then at 9:45 a.m., Chicago PMI will be released. Economist expect the regional indicator fell to 56.4 in February from 59.6 the month prior. "We anticipate a substantial drop-off in the Chicago business barometer in February," wrote Citi's Peter D'Antonio. "The Chicago area is accustomed to nasty winter conditions, so we normally wouldn’t look for weather effects in a manufacturing index from that region. However, the region’s activity would be affected by a pullback in demand for its products due to weather. In this case, the relative importance of autos means that the dramatic weather-related reduction in vehicle sales in recent months (and the corresponding overstocked lots and reduced orders) could impact this measure of activity." Consumer confidence comes out at 9:55 a.m. Economists believe the final reading of the Michigan consumer confidence measure will come in at 81.2. "On one hand, higher utilities bills during the winter season could cut into discretionary income and weigh on the index," wrote Nomura economists. "On the other hand, households have been more optimistic about the labor market and their finances." At 10:00 a.m., we'll get pending home sales. Economists are looking for sales to increase 1.5% in January. Though, some are forecasting a drop. "We look for pending home sales, which track signed contracts on single-family homes, condos, and co-ops, to fall 5% m/m in January," wrote Barclays economists. "One factor in our forecast is MBA applications for purchase, which rose 4.4% on the month after declining 6.1% in December. Buyer traffic in the NAHB home index, however, fell to 40 in January, perhaps driven by adverse weather, and is suggestive of less momentum." Ukraine's interior minister says Russian forces have begun an "armed invasion" in Crimea by blocking an air base and entering another airport in the Black Sea peninsula, the AFP reports. "The incidents come a day after dozens of pro-Moscow gunmen seized government buildings in the Crimean capital of Simferopol including the regional parliament, which subsequently voted to hold a referendum on May 25 to expand the region's autonomy from Kiev," according to the report. Asian markets were mixed in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei fell 0.55% while Shanghai climbed 0.44%. Markets across Europe were lower and U.S. futures were pointing to a negative open. India's slow growth. Economists believe India's economic growth will remain below the 5% mark for the fifth straight quarter, the Wall Street Journal reports. "India’s pace of economic expansion has halved to a decade-low of 4.5% in the last fiscal year from about 9% till two years before that. Overburdened infrastructure, rising borrowing costs, bureaucratic red-tape and uncertainty over tax policies have spooked consumers and corporations in Asia’s third largest economy," according to the Journal. European unemployment stays flat while Japan looks healthier. According to new data from Eurostat, the unemployment rate in the euro area held at 12%. Meanwhile, data on Japanese consumer prices, industrial production, and labor market all looked solid. FREE AppDownload
