REUTERS/Toru HanaiBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda caught the markets by surprise Friday.The Nikkei closed up 4.83%, hitting a seven-year high after the Bank of Japan (BoJ) unexpectedly announced it was expanding its monetary easing policy Friday morning. In a tight vote, the BoJ backed an 80 trillion yen ($720 billion) target for expanding the monetary base (a measure of the amount of money held by the central bank and in the economy). That's up from a previous target of 60 trillion to 70 trillion yen. Analysts were basically not expecting anything Friday: this one was a genuine surprise. Just as the Fed this week announced the final tapering of QE3 (in which the monthly bond purchases the Fed had been making were stopped), the Bank of Japan is hitting the gas.  No prizes for spotting the announcement on this graph of the Nikkei:  Bloomberg This was a major unexpected move by Haruhiko Kuroda, the Bank of Japan's governor, and a big new chapter in the country's "Abenomics" experiment, named after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  It's all in reaction to a slowdown in inflation. The BoJ has committed itself to reaching a 2% inflation target, but core inflation dropped to 1% from 1.1% in October, the lowest in nearly a year. Kuroda has repeatedly expressed this goal, but it seems as if markets only halfway believed him. The dollar and yen are reacting pretty much as one would expect, too. Here the dollar is up 2.23% against the yen; 111 yen to the dollar is the highest since 2008.  Bloomberg Here's the reaction from a Rabobank analyst's note on what the fresh expansion means: And here's Chris Scicluna at Daiwa Capital Markets outlining a couple of the other, smaller measures the Bank of Japan just announced that it would take: And it's not just Japanese markets that are moving on the news.  After tanking Thursday, gold is getting smashed again.  It's down to just $1,171.80 an ounce, down 2.26% on the news. See below: Bloomberg Markets were also reacting to a Reuters report that the Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan’s fund for state employees and the largest one of its kind anywhere in the world, was about to hike its equities allocation. After the Nikkei closed, this was confirmed. The $1.1 trillion fund made these changes: FREE AppDownload
