REUTERSPetra Kvitova of Czech Republic kisses the winner's trophy, the Venus Rosewater Dish, while posing for photographers after defeating Eugenie Bouchard of Canada in their women's singles final tennis match at the Wimbledon Tennis Championships in London July 5, 2014. Last Thursday's massive U.S. jobs report was so unexpectedly robust that some economists have warned that tighter monetary policy could come much sooner than expected. And while there isn't much on the economic data calendar this week, we will be hearing from a lot of Federal Reserve officials who may be able to shed more light on the path of monetary policy. "This week’s data docket will focus mainly on Fed-related headlines as five regional Fed presidents will be speaking: They are Lacker and Kocherlakota (Tuesday), George (Thursday), followed by Lockhart and Evans (Friday)," said Deutsche Bank economists. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Fedspeak Calendar Market Commentary The S&amp;P 500 continues to climb to new all-time highs. However, earnings growth expectations are lagging, causing valuations to become less attractive. Currently, the price-to-forward earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 is at 15.7, which is above historical averages. FactSet's John Butters offers some context: The current forward 12-month P/E ratio is above both the 5-year average (13.3) and the 10-year average (13.8). The P/E ratio has been above the 5-year average for more than a year (since January 2013), while it has been above the 10-year average for the past ten months (since August 2013). With the forward P/E ratio well above the 5-year and 10-year averages, one could argue that the index may now be overvalued. On the other hand, the current forward 12-month P/E ratio is still (slightly) below the 15-year average (15.8). During the first two years of this time frame (1999 – 2001), the forward 12-month P/E ratio was consistently above 20.0, peaking at around 25.0 at various points in time. With the forward P/E ratio still below the 15-year average and not close to the higher P/E ratios recorded in the early years of this period, one could argue that the index may still be undervalued. Keep in mind, this ratio is based on analysts' forecasted earnings, which are often very inaccurate and could eventually prove to be to optimistic. Assuming the latter, stocks may actually be much more expensive than they appear. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
