Getty Images LatamFrench filmmakers accuse Netflix of avoiding local taxes that subsidize French films.The American video streaming service Netflix launches in France today amid hostility from state-subsidized local media and fears that it will erode the French “cultural exception”. Netflix is trying to win over the French public and soothe anxious film and TV producers, accustomed to being sheltered from international competition, by financing a locally-made drama called “Marseille”. The eight-episode series, in French, is being billed as a Gallic answer to the internationally acclaimed Netflix remake of the political drama “House of Cards”. Filmed in Marseille and due to start showing next year, it will depict a vicious election battle between an ageing mayor, who has controlled the Mediterranean city for 25 years, and the young man he has chosen as his heir but who decides to challenge him, against a backdrop of corruption, violence and drug trafficking. The novelist Dan Franck, who is writing the screenplay, said: “Netflix has given us a blank page to create a House of Cards in French that breaks through unspoken hypocrisy.” However, the French film producers’ association accused Netflix of “fiscal dumping”. It claims it is deliberately avoiding local taxes paid by national television channels and streaming services, which subsidies French films, by setting up its European headquarters in Amsterdam. That will also exempt it from a requirement that 40 per cent of content on TV and radio must be of French origin. “Offering only American series would never work here,” said Pascal Rogard, the head of the French Society of Dramatic Authors and Composers. Frédéric Goldsmith, head of the French film producers’ association, said: “What is impressive with Netflix is its technological and marketing abilities, but its service isn’t new.” The local telecommunications operators Orange, owned by France Telecom, SFR, Bouygues and Free are refusing to host Netflix on their TV boxes as they do for rival French streaming services, because they have not agreed financial terms. A senior manager of one telecoms firm told the newspaper, Le Journal du Dimanche: “We receive between 20 and 35 per cent of the revenue to distribute a service but Netflix is offering us a ridiculously small share. No operator is interested in signing now.” Netflix will be accessible on the Internet. Governmental opposition to Netflix was removed last month when François Hollande purged left-wing rebels from his government. They included the former culture minister, Aurélie Filippetti, who had called the service a “stowaway” for entering the French market with its head office in a different country, and the former economy minister, Arnaud Montebourg, who had picked fights with several foreign investors. Ironically, the pair made headlines last week by being photographed on a romantic holiday in California, where Netflix is based. The service will face competition from French rivals such as the country's leading pay TV operator, Canal+, and Numericable, whose streaming service also launches today. Canal+ already owns the French rights to House of Cards and has just gone into partnership with the American TV company, HBO, in an attempt to head off competition from Netflix, which has 50 million subscribers worldwide. It plans to follow its move into the French market by launching its service in Austria, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland.  FREE AppDownload
