In my financial advisor days, I had a client who was a successful commercial airline pilot, and had every intention of maintaining his comfortable lifestyle in retirement. When he and his wife came to me to discuss their retirement plan, I discovered that his company-sponsored 401(k) was made up entirely of cash. He was unaware that he had not invested his contributions and missed 22 years of compounding returns by staying out of the market. While this example is quite extreme, it begs the question – what is your relationship with cash? The World has Changed The return expectations we have for our investments aren’t what they used to be. Continued market ups and downs have pushed many of us out of the market and into cash. I have firsthand knowledge, both personally and professionally, that sitting in cash on the sidelines is one of the best ways for an investor to go nowhere fast. We miss opportunities by staying out of the market. If we take a closer look at our own behaviors, understanding what drives us personally, or in some cases uncovering the things that may derail us, and using this knowledge to drive our goals, we may be able to ensure we are doing everything we can to meet our goals. Self-Awareness, Revisited In the interest of full disclosure, I must admit my own self-knowledge can be summed up by the adage, “the cobbler’s children have no shoes”. It’s true. My experience in financial services does not equate to being fully aware of my own drawbacks as an investor. In other words, I’m not perfect. I’m guilty of hoarding cash.  I know that this cash is not just earning little to no return, it will lose spending power during times of inflation. Yet, for one reason or another, I’ve kept a hefty portion of my portfolio in cash for more than two years now, true to cobbler form. My colleagues have similar stories. Sue Thompson reveals in a Hindsight to Insight story that she and her husband spent so much time trying to decide what to do with a bonus check that they missed a 20% market surge. Out of Cash and into the Market Sitting in cash is not a strategy. While keeping some cash in your portfolio can be a good thing, it’s all too easy to make the mistake of keeping too much cash for too long. Personal biases, behaviors and fears can keep us from making logical decisions about our investments, and each misstep can be costly. So what’s an investor to do? I encourage you to ask yourself, what is your relationship with cash? How much are you holding, just waiting for the “right moment” to invest? In the past 12 months, the market has returned more than 20%, and I am personally experiencing an intense fear of missing out (a.k.a. ‘FOMO’) on any future gains; the fear may be just enough to push me back into the market. If you’re looking to put your cash to work, you don’t have to spend hours developing a perfect strategy. Instead, I suggest two potential paths: Test how well you know yourself as an investor: how much cash are you currently holding? What are some of your reasons for staying on the sidelines? Share your stories here. Heather Pelant is Head of Personal Investing for BlackRock. She is a regular contributor to The Blog and you can find more of her posts here. Carefully consider the Funds’ investment objectives, risk factors, and charges and expenses before investing. This and other information can be found in the Funds’ prospectuses or, if available, the summary prospectuses, which may be obtained by visiting the iShares ETF and BlackRock Mutual Fund prospectus pages. Read the prospectus carefully before investing.  Investing involves risk, including possible loss of principal. Transactions in shares of ETFs will result in brokerage commissions and will generate tax consequences. All regulated investment companies are obliged to distribute portfolio gains to shareholders. This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast of future events or a guarantee of future results. The strategies discussed are strictly for illustrative and educational purposes and should not be construed as a recommendation to purchase or sell, or an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. There is no guarantee that any strategies discussed will be effective. iS-13349-0814 FREE AppDownload
