Wikimedia CommonsAkihabara electronics district in JapanIn 2014, the strongest equity returns in Asia have come from the south. Benchmark indices in India, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand are all up 20 percent or more year-to-date, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 index is down 2.5 percent, and the MSCI Korea index is down 0.4 percent. Stocks in China and Taiwan are up 9 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively, but much of that gain came in a single late-summer rally. Should one stick with the winners? Bob Parker, a Senior Adviser at Credit Suisse, doesn’t think so. In fact, says Parker, Asian markets are in the early stages of a great investment migration from south to north. China, Japan, Korea and Taiwan are under-owned relative to countries such as India and Thailand, where global emerging market funds are overweight 111 and 71 percent, respectively, compared to the MSCI Emerging Market index. (In other words, global funds own 2.11x as much India as is in the index.) Funds are underweight 4 percent in China, 29 percent in Korea, and 40 percent in Taiwan – even after foreign investors poured $13 billion into Korean equities and $18 billion into Taiwan since May. By comparison, investors put just $166 million and $441 million in Indonesia and the Philippines, respectively, while they pulled some $7 billion out of Thailand and $3.5 billion out of Malaysia. India is a major exception to the south-to-north trend. Foreign investors excited about the election of reform-oriented Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent more money to Indian equity markets than any other Asian market, some $20 billion, since the spring. Call it a portfolio rebalancing. The most obvious reason: Stocks in Southern Asia have gotten pretty expensive of late, making North Asia look quite cheap by comparison. As of Sept. 4, China and Korea were the cheapest markets in Asia, with stocks trading at 9.3x and 9.9x forward earnings, respectively. Japan and Taiwan were more expensive, with both trading at 13.5x, and Singapore at 13.7x, but both were still cheaper than their southern counterparts. The Philippines was the most expensive Asian market at 18.6x forward earnings, followed by India (16.1x), Malaysia (15.3x), and Indonesia (14.7x). Thailand is the only Southeast Asian market that looks relatively cheap at 12.8x forward earnings. Cheaper and less crowded is certainly attractive, but it isn’t the full story. Many Japanese companies, for example, are particularly well poised to benefit from an expected acceleration in the growth of global industrial production in the remaining months of this year. That’s because as a whole, Japan has higher operating leverage (that is, a greater ratio of fixed costs to variable) than any other country in the world, meaning its performance is more susceptible to fluctuations in sales. And cyclical stocks make up more than half of Japan’s total market capitalization, offering investors plenty from which to choose. Credit Suisse also believes the Bank of Japan will announce additional quantitative easing before year-end, making Japanese equities attractive relative to those in the U.S. and U.K., where policy is expected to tighten. Though the Chinese economy has had a bumpy ride this year, neither the housing collapse nor the debt crisis that investors feared earlier in the year has materialized. In a report entitled “A Micro Story,” Credit Suisse Head of China Research Vincent Chan says Chinese companies have protected profits during the slowdown by slashing selling, general and administrative expenses as well as capital expenditures. That’s an important change, Chan notes, as Chinese companies used to spend freely no matter what the economic conditions, confident in the country’s long-term growth outlook and willing to sacrifice short-term profits in order to keep expanding. Chinese managers’ newfound discipline has resulted in stronger profit growth than sales growth since the first quarter of 2013, and Chan expects earnings results to continue improving over the next few quarters. This summer, Chinese shares bumped higher afterthe announcement of an impending rule change allowing foreigners to buy Shanghai-listed stocks through Hong Kong starting in October. Finally, Credit Suisse believes companies in Korea, where exports make up 47 percent of GDP, should fare very well in the event global industrial production does boom. In August, Korea’s Purchasing Managers Index reading rose to 50.3, and anything above 50 indicates expansion. Given the benign inflation environment, Credit Suisse expects the Korean central bank to remain dovish well into 2015, which should also support Korean equities. Attractive valuations, under-owned markets, and improving fundamentals – the northward trek has only just begun. FREE AppDownload
