Sony/"American Hustle"Christian Bale, who was super fit as Patrick Bateman in 'American Psycho', had to gain weight for his role in 'American Hustle.' People talk about getting the freshman 15 from too much beer in the 1st year of undergrad ... when in reality, if you don't make it into the gym at all when you have basically 12 free hours a day, you probably deserve it and should be mocked for laziness. Compare that to your 1st year of sell-side trading (or sales / research). Not only are you going to be dining out with clients and going out for drinks, but you'll also be working 60-70 hours a week on top of that. It might be excusable to let yourself go ... and become 'skinny fat'. Skinny fat is when you lose your muscle, your shoulders become narrower, and yet you get a bigger gut. At the same time, you need to go out and drink/eat with clients so you can build your network and meet your clients/potential employers on the buy-side. It's a tough balancing act, so here are some tips from someone who did just this for many a year, trying to stay in shape while working from 6:30am-7pm and drinking 20+ drinks a week (half work-related). Don't let yourself go and gain the sell-side 15, but make sure you take advantage of networking that comes alongside client events. Here are some quick tips on how to stay fit, and fit in with the S&amp;T guys, who are some of the wildest drinkers on the street, and some examples of what happens when you don't do things the right way. If you are in sales/trading you are expected to usually go to one client dinner a week at the least (usually steak), and go out for 'casual drinks' at least one or two other nights. It's hard to balance this with not getting obese and getting to the gym, yet it's a big and necessary part of what your job as a junior trader/salesperson is. Pro-tips on casual drinks with clients: Tips on client dinners: So now that you've constrained your 'inputs' (alcohol, red meat) it's time to work on the 'output' - working out is tough because if you go out on a Tuesday, not only is Tuesday night terrible but Wednesday night is for passing out immediately. So you lose 2 days with one event. The key is to use your weekends - I always made either Friday/Saturday a big night, but tried to work out on Saturday/Sunday mornings. And outside of that, Monday nights and Wednesday nights were the most likely. If you can get 2-3 workouts in during the week, and a bonus one if you have time, then you are doing great. What to do at the gym? Hit the weights for 30 minutes. Your goal is to maintain as much of your muscle from college as possible. Don't be one of those people that goes and runs on the tread mill at 5mph for an hour. Do 1-2 heavy weight exercises, and then 3-4 other exercises with lower weight/higher reps. That should be an optimal mix. As for cardio, running at a high speed on the treadmill is key. Also have yogurt/fruit/veggies at home. Continue reading the rest of the post at Wall Street Oasis &gt; This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
