Getty Images/Justin SullivanThe face Tim Cook probably makes when he sees iPhone sales.Apple reported another rock solid quarter this afternoon. "We're selling everything we make," said Apple CEO Tim Cook during the earnings call with analysts when asked about iPhone sales.  Revenue was better than expected thanks to those iPhone sales. Net income was a record for the September quarter at $8.5 billion.  Despite the strong report, the stock was up just over 1% in after-hours trading on the news. Here are the numbers, more analysis is below: The story of this earnings report is that the iPhone is strong, and the Mac is better than ever.  The iPhone 6 is a smash hit and it will fuel Apple for the next couple of quarters. On the company's earnings call, CEO Tim Cook said demand for the iPhone is far stronger than supply right now. He said the two aren't even "on the same planet".  Cook was asked about the mix between the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus. Since Apple is selling everything it makes, Cook says it's hard to tell. Over time, when supply and demand are in balance, it will be easier to figure out the mix. Cook says it varies from region to region, which is what Apple expected. The Mac is the surprise of the quarter. Apple sold more Macs this quarter than any other quarter in its history.  Two years ago, the smart set thought the iPad was going to kill the Mac. That's not happening. The iPad was down, yet again. But it's okay for Apple, as long as the iPad and the Mac balance each other out. And right now, they do. The Mac + iPad revenue was up 4.5% on a year-over-year basis. The Mac was up 21% on year-over-year basis, and Cook says Apple will have its highest share of the PC market since 1995. Repeatedly he said that this feels great since the PC market is contracting on an overall basis. On the call, Cook addressed the weakness with the iPad. Cook said some people look at buying an iPad and a Mac, and opt for the iPad. He says some people look at the iPhone and the iPad, and opt for the iPhone. And that's okay by him. He said that in the first four years the iPad has been on the market it's sold twice as many units as the iPhone did in its first four years. He says the market for tablets is not saturated. He says that in the weakest market, 50% of people buying iPads are buying their first iPads. In stronger markets, 70% of people buying iPads are buying their first iPads. So, what's up with the iPad? Cook's best explanation: This product is only 4 years old, and it seems that people hang onto the iPad much longer than the iPhone. As a result, the upgrade cycle could be slower.  In the "long arc of time," Cook thinks the iPad will continue to be a giant business.  That's about it for the major themes of the report.  There was one small surprise: Apple doesn't plan to break out Apple Watch sales as its own product line in future earnings. Apple has always reported its product line, with break outs on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod. The Apple Watch will not get the same treatment. That will obfuscate revenue and unit sales for Apple. Here's a look at the results in chart form, via BI Intelligence: BI IntelligenceBI IntelligenceBI IntelligenceBI Intelligence And here is Apple's handy table with all the data in it: Apple FREE AppDownload
