Lululemon's new CEO has had an "uninspiring tenure" so far, and the yoga brand is suffering from an exodus of loyal customers, according to analysts at Sterne Agee. The firm has downgraded the retailer from "neutral" to "underperform," citing lasting damage from product quality issues and difficulty attracting new customers, among other issues. "Many customers have left and it's hard to get them back, especially given the focus on the women's active apparel business from brands such as Nike and Under Armour, and retailers such as Athleta, Sweaty Betty, Victoria's Secret, and others which have bitten into LULU," Sterne Agee analyst Sam Poser writes. Here's why the brand is in trouble, according to Poser. 1. Lululemon has lost customers' trust. A lot of complaints on the company's website about the quality of its products are "more indicative of the lack of trust in the Lululemon brand, not quality issues," Poser writes. "What made the company such a force to be reckoned with, up until mid 2013, in our view, was the fact that Lululemon offered one of the best, if not the best, combination of product and consumer/community engagement in all of retail," he adds.  But a string of issues that started with the company's recall last year of its Luon pants for being see-through has alienated once-loyal customers. 2. Declining store sales. Lululemon's same-store sales fell 5% in the most recent quarter. Poser said that weakness was particularly alarming because a large chunk of its store base — approximately 40% — is less than three years old.   3. Stiff competition. Until Lululemon's pants recall, the company's loyal customers were oblivious to other athletic-wear companies, Poser says. But competitors like Athleta, Nike, and Under Armour have swept in and stolen their attention with aggressive investments in their women's' business. Their efforts appear to be working, Poser writes. Nike and Under Armour each recently posted double-digit increases in their women's business. 4. Weakening customer service. Poser says the level of customer service in Lululemon's stores is declining, "which has caused a deterioration of the value proposition."  5. An expensive international expansion. Poser says Lululemon's plans to open one store in Singapore, one store in Hong Kong, and a second store in London is too aggressive. "We are surprised that LULU does not focus on one or two countries in order to have an opportunity to lever expenses in the near term, rather than open stores in far-off lands with little opportunity for leverage." www.facebook.comLululemon was widely praised as having some of the most loyal customers in retail before the sheer pants debacle that forced the company to recall about 17% of its bottoms in March 2013. The company rolled out a new design for its pants several months later with a thicker fabric, called "Full-On Luon." But some customers have continued to complain that the new pants are too sheer and that the material began pilling after only a couple of wears. Then last November, Lululemon founder Chip Wilson faced a backlash after he suggested in an interview that some women's bodies were to blame for the ongoing problems with the pants. He later posted a video apology for his remarks and begged customers to give the company a second chance. A new CEO, Laurent Potdevin, took over earlier this year, but the company's stock has failed to recover from last year's mishaps. The share price has fallen more than 30% in the past 12 months. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
