BloombergNew York Federal Reserve President Bill Dudley.Bill Dudley, president of the New York Fed, just concluded his interview with Bloomberg's Matt Winkler at the Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit. Among Dudley's notable comments were that markets shouldn't read too much into the Fed's Dot Plot, and that being on the zero lower bound of interest rates is "not a particularly comfortable place to be." Dudley said he would like to see the Fed move off the zero lower bound of interest rates as soon as appropriate, but echoing comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen made last week, that move depends on the progress of the economy and the Fed's progress towards its goals. The Fed's dual mandate stipulates that the Fed seek to achieve full employment and price stability, which the Fed has said is 2% inflation; it is currently short of those goals.  Dudley noted that in his tenure as president of the New York Fed, he has not raised interest rates, and said, "I'd like to raise interest rates at some time during my tenure... but I'm not going to raise interest rates just for the sake of raising them." Dudley emphasized that the Fed should be patient with respect to raising interest rates, saying that you don't want to raise rates too soon only to be forced to reverse course. On the broader monetary policy environment, Dudley said the Fed is operating in a different way than it has historically, and that it makes sense that people would view this with some nervousness. The Fed's balance sheet could remain high when the Fed is done with its QE program, or return to historical levels, but Dudley said that personally, he believes it is too soon to judge what will be appropriate over the longer-term. Regarding the Fed's Summary of Economic Projections, Dudley said it is worth asking if this is the best way to give the FOMC's views on the future of the economy. Talking to everyone's favorite Fed indicator, the Dot Plot, he doesn't think the Dot Plot should be "overweighted," especially as we get further out the time horizon.  One of the changes that Dudley sees with regard to the Fed's thinking is its approach to asset bubbles. Ahead of the financial crisis, the Fed didn't see bubbles as easy to identify and believed these were hard to combat with monetary policy. But in the wake of the financial crisis, Dudley says the Fed now sees a need to identify asset bubbles ahead of time and use the tools it has, whether it be monetary policy or macroprudential, to combat asset bubbles. If the Fed wants financial stability, Dudley said, than it certainly needs to monitor and attempt to address potential asset bubbles. Dudley said that despite all the terrible things going on in the world – from Ebola, to ISIS — there isn't a lot of connectivity back to the financial world at this point. The US dollar has been in rally mode this summer, and Dudley said that if it appreciates a lot, it would dampen trade exports as well as inflation, which could make it harder for the Fed to achieve its goals.  FREE AppDownload
