REUTERS/Denis BalibouseThe name Patek Philippe is among the most powerful in the entire watch industry. It is synonymous with class, conservatism, high auction values, price legitimacy, and some of the best looking traditional watches now or ever made. Patek Philippe remains an independent company whose secrets and plans are tightly guarded, and its most exclusive watches often go directly from the factory to the hands of the world's most prestigious collectors - never to be displayed in a store counter or window. When it comes to high-end timepiece auction prices, Patek Philippe leads the pack easily dominating all other watch makers in regard to achieving regular, record-setting prices. Most Patek Philippe watches that yield not-so-small fortunes during auctions as extremely rare, often unique pieces made for special collectors. Most of these bespoke Patek Philippe watches were produced in the first half of the 20th century, during a time when Patek Philippe was much more open to design and product experimentation. Though some of its most valuable timepieces (which includes both pocket and wrist watches) have been produced in the modern era. aBlogtoWatch has compiled an assortment of the world's rarest and most valuable Patek Philippe watches in terms of price, starting with a collection of 15 pieces. The list may grow over time as auction results or new watches of extremely high worth over $1,500,000 become available to share. The Sky Moon Tourbillon is without a doubt one of the most widely recognized watches that Patek Philippe has ever made. Earlier last year, in 2013, the manufacture introduced its follow-up model, now referred to as 6002G. With its astonishingly intricate (and perhaps slightly excessive) engravings adorning its 18k white gold case, the 6002G managed to elevate the already striking appearance of its predecessor to another level. Beyond its stunning aesthetics, this reference hides the most complicated wrist watch movement that Patek makes. The front of the watch displays the time, perpetual calendar with retrograde date, and the phase of the moon, while the dial on the back is reserved to address more unearthly issues. It features a stellar illustration of the northern sky as well as indications for sidereal time on a 24-hour scale, time of meridian passage of Sirius and of the moon, along with the angular progression and the phase of the moon. Although not revealed by a sapphire window on the white gold case (because it has a double-side dial), the movement's regulating organ is a one-minute tourbillon. Consisting of 69 parts and weighing a total of just 0.3 grams, it is one of the few tourbillons that are actually submitted to rigorous chronometry tests, with its rate fluctuations set not to exceed -2 and +1 seconds per day. Finally, the Sky Moon Tourbillon's 686-component caliber also features a minute repeater, chiming the time - the one that is displayed on the front dial - with its two cathedral gongs. With only two being made by Patek, the price for all this engraved haute horologerie goodness is around $1,500,000. It isn't all that that much more than a standard ref. 5002 Sky Moon Tourbillon either. Manufactured in 1947 and sold in 1950, this piece (auctioned by Christie's in November, 2013) is one of three Reference 1563 that are known to exist. Based on the 1436, it is a bi-compax chronograph and it also has the waterproof screw-in case back of the 1436. The difference is to be found in the added feature and complication of the split-seconds chronograph mechanism. Such a complication is known as one of the most difficult to assemble and produce. This particular piece is unique among the three iterations of the 1563 in that it has luminous Breguet numerals and also luminous sword hands - all original to the watch. Noted in Patek's documents concerning this watch is the fact that it actually has 1436 stamped on the inside of its caseback, though it is not written whether this is for the lack of correctly stamped components, or just because someone had a rough night the day prior to assembling this beautiful piece. What we feel certain about is that owing to its bold numerals, beautifully balanced dial layout and its sublime complication, this watch sports a timeless and, dare we say, a more sportier look, something that makes this piece hugely desirable for the collectors of today and tomorrow. The world's rarest and hence most expensive Patek Philippe watches are all unique creations which carry one or more unique accomplishments that set them apart from the rest. Having said that, this Prototype Pilot's watch from 1936 is just something else. To begin with, its movement was actually made in 1912, and it was only some 24 years later that it was set in its nickel-chromed case that is seen above. Equipped with what is referred to as a "splittable centre seconds and hour angle dial", this unique prototype has only one counterpart out there, as Patek is known to have only made two of such watches. What this weird term "hour angle dial" actually means is that the hour hand rotates once in 24 hours, indicating the degrees of arc against the center circle divided into 360. The "minute" hand rotates once every 4 hours and is read against the scale of 60. The two second hands revolve every 4 minutes, showing the angular minutes. Consequently, the time shown on the watch as pictured, reads 332 8.5', translating into 22 hours, 8 minutes and 30 seconds, the very time that all watches show in books and catalogues. Measuring in at an immense 56mm in diameter, this piece was designed to be worn by pilots who would wear it on the outside of their flight suit. A truly unique and very interesting piece that was sold by Christie's on the 11th of May, 2009, for $1,710,690. Sometimes things need not be so complicated to be desirable and, for some, to be exceedingly valuable. Big watches are in nowadays, and that makes important watches of the past which were extraordinarily large for the time in high demand. In the special world of auctions, high demand equals no limit bidding. A stellar example is this monopusher chronograph from 1932: cased in an 18k gold case measuring 46 millimeters in diameter, not only was it considered to be an extremely large watch at the time, but it still remains uncharted territory as Patek Philippe generally makes much more conservatively sized pieces. Produced as a special order and sold for Count Carlo Felice Trossi, the president of Scuderia Ferrari, not only is this watch rare, but also has the important added value of a prominent owner. It is also a rarity to have a photograph from such early times of not only the first owner, but of him actually wearing the watch. Seen in the background on the image above is the president of Ferrari, proudly wearing his custom made, 46mm Patek single button chronograph on his sleeve, where he presumably wore it for the benefit of easier access as he was timing laps. Sold by Sotheby's in May, 2008 for $2.24 million, this watch is yet another proof of the massive interest in important and unusually large watches of the past. Over the years (well, centuries), Patek has created a fantastic array of different references, most of which you will discover in our selection. While the 1591 may just be one you have not heard about before, it's clear it has something special going for it once you learn that it was featured on the cover of Christie's Geneva Important Pocket Watches and Wrist Watches Catalog in 2007. Its special blend of exceptionally refined aesthetics and stunningly complex inner workings make the 1591 an extremely desirable piece even among other historically important watches. As if that was not enough, let's add that only two, that's right, two pieces were ever made. The one sold by Christie's is, well, one of its kind being the only one housed in stainless steel, while the other piece is in 18k yellow gold. And despite the fact that it was manufactured in 1944 - at an extremely early and war-stricken time, and also set in a material that Patek has duly avoided, this piece has even more to offer. According to Christie's notes, this watch was unknown to literature and the market until 1996. That was the time when it was first offered at auction, and also when it broke the then world-record for any stainless steel wristwatch ever sold at auction. According to Patek's notes this piece was sold by its retailer in India and, as Christie's remarks, it actually was "the pride of a Maharaja who enjoyed wearing the robust timepiece occasionally when playing polo. It was then given as a present to the man in charge of organizing the Maharaja's wedding." After fetching a striking $2,240,714 all we know is that the piece can now be found at the Patek Philippe Museum... and that I never before wanted so much to be a wedding organizer in India. Another incredibly complicated pocket watch by Patek Philippe; but this has something more going for it than your average sublimely complicated Patek: it is the first ever made and recorded grand complication by the manufacture. Actually, a piece made in 1910 was broadly believed to have been the first, until this truly beautiful pocket watch was offered for auction by its owner. Made in 1898 and sold in 1900 for one of the greatest business leaders of the early 20th century America, Mr. Stephen S. Palmer. This minute repeating, perpetual calendar, split-seconds chronograph watch, with grande and petite sonnerie and moon phases, is set in 18k pink gold and is among the most important watches Patek has ever made. As it can be read on the original receipt that was also included in the sale, Palmer purchased the piece in 1900 for a hefty sum of 6,000 Swiss francs. What has not been documented, but clearly shows from the condition of the watch, is that it has been locked away for more than a century in its original box. In summary, this is the finest example of all Grand Complications known today with it not only being the first ever made, but also the one in the most stellar condition. Considering the prices that other pieces fetched in our collection of super rare Patek Philippe pieces, the fact that this piece was sold by Christies in June, 2013 for $2.25 million tells us that someone got one hell of a deal. Built around a quartz movement, this unique Patek Philippe clock's importance lies not in its mechanical complexity, but rather in its rarity and its intricate use of precious materials. Made in 1992, at the center of this presentation clock is a magpie bird, covered in two different shades of gold: in its beak is a 104.75-carat, oval-shaped tanzanite gem that is looks about to place into its yellow gold nest. The tree,sculpted from calcite, onyx and agate, is resting on a substantial piece of rock crystal, that was further adorned with yellow, white, blue and pink agate flowers and green agate foliage. All are set with diamonds, rubies and amethyst petals. As if all this wasn't enough for what appears to be the luckiest and greediest magpies in all of human history, the bird's nest contains diamond-set treasures, including a pair of scissors, spectacles, thimble, ruby-set ring and enamel-capped safety pin. Adorned with dozens of flowers, truly intricate, hand-crafted details, 24.95 carats of diamonds and 13.17 carats of rubies, this unique clock had a high-estimate of $640,000. A seemingly high price, but one that this piece surpassed with surprising ease, ultimately costing more than $2.3 million for its new owner. Launched in 1962, the Patek Philippe Reference 3448 was the first automatic perpetual calendar wristwatch ever made by any manufacture. A total of 586 were produced over nearly two decades, up until 1981, when Patek retired the 3448 to replace it with a slightly updated version referred to as 3450. Sold in 1968, this particular piece ended up with a collector who apparently had a very clear vision of what this watch will be worth decades later. So he locked it away in a safe and kept it there with the original box and certificates. 43 years later, as if nothing had happened, this 3448 was offered for auction at Christie's, straight from the original owner. The watch was in incredibly fine and original condition with a sharp and unaltered case, original and rare "PP" crown and an un-restored dial. Though the story of this 3448 did not end right there. As per the trends of the era, most iterations of this model were cased in 18k yellow gold, some were in white gold and only two were made in platinum. This piece, however, is in pink gold: a treat so rare that no archivist, auctioneer or collector knew of its existence until it was listed for auction. It is the only Reference 3448 known in this material. Once all this is taken into account, it should come as no surprise that Patek collectors had their pants and paddles on fire, as bids quickly surpassed the 500,000 to 1 million Swiss Franc estimate. Ultimately, this one-of-a-kind watch finally sold for 2.1 million francs (or $2.3 million), paying handsomely for the farseeing collector who had been nursing it for more than four decades. Following the previous array of incredibly complicated, extremely important and often made-to-order watches on our list, we have come to one that just stands out from the rest in a very unique way. It is the reference 2523 World Time watch from 1955. This is a piece that carried no unearthly importance upon its debut. The earth did not shake near Geneva upon its completion and there was no wealthy collector overseas, eagerly anticipating the moment of receiving it. It was much more of an odd piece than a practically useful one, and hence it had not received instant recognition or success. It has to be noted though that at the time of its creation in the middle of the 1950's intercontinental business trips were much less common than they are today, which rendered this watch less desirable than its similarly expensive counterparts which were equipped with other useful complications as judged by contemporary standards. In any event the original Patek Philippe World Timer is a complicated piece unto itself. The ingenious world time disc-system was invented by Louis Cottier in 1931 was later implemented by Patek, Vacheron Constantin, Rolex, and others. As times have changed, not only did this complication become one of the most popular useful functions, but the reference 2523 has also become much more appreciated among collectors, as seen by the seven figure prices these world timers consistently achieve at auctions. This version, with a hand-painted map of North America at the center of its dial, was sold by Christie's in 2012 for nearly $3 million. In addition to the Supercomplication pocket watch, here is another piece made by Patek Philippe, for Henry Graves Jr. Measuring in at only 30.5 mm in diameter, this small, tonneau-shaped watch has a lot more going for it than its simple looks would suggest. To begin with, it is the first wristwatch that he commissioned Patek Philippe to make for him. As per the manufacture's archives, this watch contains a minute repeater movement that was made in 1895, and was actually cased much later, in 1927, before it was sold to its original owner Graves Jr. It is one of four wristwatches that Patek delivered to him and it is the only one that is cased in yellow gold. The case back is engraved with the Graves' coat of arms and motto: Esse Quam Videri, "to be rather than to seem." That the elaborate movement in this watch has been hidden behind a solid case back is just another way of showing that Graves Jr. took the family motto rather seriously. Minute repeaters by Patek (and by other brands as well) remain among the most desirable and technically most challenging watches to make. This was all the more true at the time when this piece was manufactured. Production of watches with this complication remain low for their complexity and the small number of master watchmakers that are able to actually assemble them. Bear in mind that this piece is among some of the first repeater wristwatches made by Patek Philippe. Further, it was owned by someone who had been one of the most important Patek collectors ever. This should help explain the price of nearly $3 million that was paid for this piece in 2012 at a Sotheby's auction. This probably unique, cushion-shaped mono-pusher chronograph was made by Patek Philippe in 1928 and was sold in 1931. There is good reason why these dates might sound familiar to most of us, as we are presently living in a global economy that is, for the most part, hindered by a major economic crisis. In 1929 the Great Depression affected the watch industry much more severely than the one that we have been experiencing lately. Nevertheless, it was the "best clients" of certain watch brands who played a major role in keeping their favorite manufactures going. Part of this was by requesting, and paying hefty premiums for, one-of-a-kind models. The piece above is believed to be one of those made-to-order watches, one of only a handful cushion-cased chronographs produced by Patek Philippe. More importantly, it was the only single button chronograph in white gold that Patek has ever produced. That made this watch all the more desirable for collectors. It further has a timeless design which is made complete with white gold spade hands and applied Breguet-numerals. Beyond the mere rarity of the combinations of materials and design elements that are found on this watch, it is important to remember that this piece was made nearly 90 years ago yet it looks, and functions, as well as anything produced ever since then. In doubt? Just take a look at the recently released Reference 5950, a remarkably similar watch by Patek that debuted in 2010. Consider the rarity, importance and power in withstanding the passage of time and the $3.6 million dollar price will seem just that little bit easier to take in. Patek started manufacturing the Reference 2499 in 1951 and produced around ten each year, for over 35 years. For most collectors, the importance and perceived value of this model lies in its perfectly proportioned case and dial layout, combined with the three complications that define some of the most desired references of Patek even today: a perpetual calendar, phase of the moon indication and chronograph. Its desirability is further proven every time when a 2499 comes up for auction with it consistently being one of the most important lot of any sale. While only 349 pieces of this reference exist, nearly all of them were produced in yellow gold as only about 10 were made in pink gold, and just 2 were cased in platinum. Those last two pieces were actually produced not for sale but to stay within Patek, as a celebration of the three and a half decade long production run of this iconic piece. One of those two post-production platinum models did eventually leave Patek, at the historic "The Art of Patek Philippe" auction in 1989, and was sold privately until it ended up with rock legend and serious watch collector Eric Clapton. It was, and will certainly remain, the only white-metal 2499 in private hands. Since it left Patek, it was available to the public for the first time when it was sold by Christie's in 2012. The final bid for the 2499/100P exceeded 3.6 million US dollars. Although Patek has stopped producing their Reference 5004, for the 5th Only Watch auction (held in September, 2013) they went on to create one final and completely unique version, the 5004T. It is housed in a highly polished titanium case, a seldom-used material by Patek. Making the design even more distinct compared to other 5004 versions (and other Patek watches in general) is a dial made of solid gold, hand-engraved with a checkered pattern. The watch features the Manufacture's amazing caliber CHR 27-70Q, based on a blank movement created exclusively for Patek by Nouvelle Lemania. Its functions include a split-second chronograph as well as a perpetual calendar with phase of the moon indication. The 5004T, without doubt, was an unusual and very special watch from Patek Philippe. This sentiment was strongly reflected in the price the piece achieved at the auction. It had an estimate between around 400,000 and 600,000 Euros, a range this unique offering far exceeded with a final bid of 2,950,000 Euros, coming in just below 4 million USD at the time of the event. Another absolute rarity among Patek Philippe's most coveted wristwatches is this unique, chronometer certified Reference 2458. Watches with chronometric certificates might sound familiar to many: COSC is the official Swiss institution testing subjected watches individually for their timekeeping performance and issuing certificates once they pass the tests. However, timepieces with Observatory provenance are on a different level. Before the advent of quartz watches during the 1960's, Observatory Precision Contests were organized to verify the finest and specially developed movements. Patek has won over 700 titles over the course of several decades on these competitions. Joe Ben Champion, who ordered this watch, was a successful criminal defense attorney, and he also was one of the most important clients of Patek Philippe. Rumors say that he also happened to be obsessed with accuracy, an attribute that probably came in handy upon standing on the defense's side in some of the most challenging trials. A match made in heaven, he requested a Chronometer certified watch from Patek, a piece he received in the form of this very timepiece. It was equipped with a special movement of which although thirty were made to enter Observatory contests with, only two had ever been cased. To top it all off, this piece remains the only Reference 2458 in platinum and it also comes with a platinum bracelet, a leather strap, as well as an additional diamond-set dial. The Caliber 89 is the most complicated watch that Patek Philippe has ever created. The manufacture presented it in 1989 as it celebrated its 150th anniversary. The watch from initial drawings and plans to the final piece took 9 years to develop and manufacture. Its 4-level movement comprises 33 complications, among which are the perpetual calendar, sunset-sunrise and sidereal time displays, Westminster-chime on four gongs, Grand and Petite sonnerie, alarm, thermometer and a titanium-caged two-minute tourbillon. The movement itself contains 1,728 hand-finished parts, 126 jewels and weighs in at an incredible 600 grams - yes, that's just the movement! A lesser-known fact about the Caliber 89 is that not one but actually four iterations exist, one each in white, yellow and pink gold as well as one in platinum. Shown above is the yellow-gold version as sold by Antiquorum for nearly 5 million US dollars in 2009. While this remarkable piece is referred to as a pocket watch, with it being 88 millimeters in diameter and 41 millimeters thick, accompanied with an overall weight of 1,100 grams (or 2.4 pounds), it is best to keep it at home, in a safe, locked away. The Reference 1527 is the most expensive wristwatch by Patek Philippe ever sold on auction, but it is only upon a closer look when it reveals exactly why it managed to fetch such a stratospheric price. First of all, there is the time when it was made: between 1943 and 1944. It is not merely the fact that the watch was produced during the second World War, but also that this particular one of a kind piece served as a fore-runner to some of the most iconic wristwatches that Patek Philippe has made ever since. For the knowledgable Patek collector, this piece is a time machine: its elongated and slightly curved lugs, its dial layout and its unusually large diameter for the time of 37.6 mm all preceded other famous Patek references by at least a decade. Furthermore, the overall design and size of this one-of-a-kind piece remains timelessly elegant even 70 years after its creation. This piece was first available for sale more than twenty years ago when it was listed for auction. It had been locked away until it came up for auction at Christie's in 2010. It required great efforts from archivists to further research the past of this piece, as when it was first sold around 1990, there was not much known about it. Ultimately, thanks to the archives of Patek Philippe, it was revealed that it was a perpetual calendar in a reference 1527 case and as such, among the two complicated iterations of this model number ever made by the manufacture. The other piece lacked the chronograph function and belonged to Charles Stern, the first owner of Patek from the Stern family. The other piece is this unique 1527, which not only proved to be the most complicated piece of this reference, but also a time machine that preceded some of Patek's most famous wristwatches by decades. The Supercomplication is among the most complicated and historically important watches ever made by Patek Philippe, or as a matter of fact, by any other watch manufacture. With its two dials, 24 complications, more than 900 parts and a weight of over 1 pound, this 18 karat gold pocket watch pushed the limits of mechanical complexity way beyond any other watch ever produced before. Among other complications it features a perpetual calendar, a minute repeater with Westminster Chimes, sidereal time and a celestial chart including a mapping of the sky over Manhattan. Following five years of planning and assembly, it was delivered in 1933 to its customer, Henry Graves Jr., a millionaire banker and avid watch collector from New York responsible for some of the most valuable Patek Philippe watches on earth. The watch held the title of the most complicated watch for over six decades, until 1989. And while it was deprived of that title by another creation of Patek Philippe, the Supercomplication managed to claim yet another record title in 1999 as it sold for just a bit over 11 million US dollars at a Sotheby's auction. On the 11th of November, 2014, Sotheby's has re-auctioned the Patek Philippe Supercomplication, selling it for a staggering 20.6 Million Swiss Francs, making the final price $23,984,106 US Dollars including buyer's premium. This has made this magnificent watch the world record holder yet again as the most expensive timepiece ever sold. FREE AppDownload
