Wikimedia CommonsThe market went on a wild ride last week, ending with a big 185-point rally in the Dow that put the major indexes modestly in the green for the week. But thanks to elevated geopolitical risks, traders have got that risk-off feeling. "Risk aversion rules," Societe Generale's Kit Juckes said. "The Ukraine conflict shows no sign of being resolved (rather, there’s far too high a chance of escalation for comfort). [T]he U.S. has approved limited airstrikes in Northern Iraq. The conflict on Gaza, too, is in danger of re-escalation. Investors have plenty of reasons to take risk off the table and are doing so across the board." The safe-haven asset classes have been popular. The Japanese yen has been strengthening against the world's major currencies; German bonds saw yields on the two-year security go negative; and gold rallied to a three-week high on Friday. Treasury bonds have been staging an impressive rally with the yield on the 10-year note sliding to a 14-month low of 2.37%. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Earnings season is wrapping up. "Of these 446 companies [that have reported Q2 results], 73% have reported actual EPS above the mean EPS estimate and 27% have reported actual EPS below the mean EPS estimate," said FactSet's John Butters. "The percentage of companies reporting EPS above the mean EPS estimate is above both the 1-year (72%) average and the 4-year (72%) average." "Inflation remains a key concern for management," said Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, whose team has thumb through the reports and listened to the conference calls. "Companies noted the potential long- term impact of rising costs on margins despite hedges that reduce the near-term impact on profits. Firms in the consumer sectors have already experienced inflationary pressures due to rising input costs. Conflicting opinions exist as to whether boosting prices on the consumer will help mitigate the effect of rising costs." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
