REUTERS/Benoit TessierThomas Piketty, director of the Paris School of Economics, at the inauguration of the school in Paris on Feb. 22, 2007. In his review of Thomas Piketty's "Capitalism in the 21st Century," MIT's Robert Solow frames the author's question to his readers like this: Would you rather live in a society in which the real wage was rising rapidly but the labor share was falling (because productivity was increasing even faster), or one in which the real wage was stagnating, along with productivity, so the labor share was unchanging? The answer to this question, according to Piketty, will tell us whether inequality, as bad as it is now, will worsen in years to come. Right now, the answer seems to be that both are happening.  According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, unit labor costs were up 4.2% in the first quarter as productivity declined and hourly compensation increased 2.4%. At the same time, the private sector is adding jobs at an ever-increasing clip. Last week we learned nonfarm payrolls came in at 288,000 for April, compared with 203,000 in March. There's more. The minimum wage is going up in 13 states and Washington, D.C., and hikes are under consideration in a number of other places. Piketty's argument hinges on the notion that if the rate of return on capital, or wealth, outpaces GDP, which can be used as a proxy for consumption, then the rich will get exponentially richer than the rest of society. But just as things have turned up in the labor market, they've taken a turn for the worse in capital markets. Stocks have seen a rough 2014: The Dow is flat on the year, the S&amp;P is up just 2%, and the Nasdaq is off 1.8% year to date. In general, assets across the board have seen low gains year to date. Not even the most unproductive and most notorious forms of wealth have been immune: art auctions are fizzling, and returns on things like furniture and wine are slowing. Hedge funds have been getting slammed. The housing market shows that within wealth inequality, there are some disparities. As CoreLogic observes (PDF), the S&amp;P 500 serves as a good two-month leading indicator of million-dollar-home sales. So it's not surprising to learn that the fastest-growing sales segments are below that level. As of February, sales of homes valued between $650,000 and $950,000 had climbed 33% from year-ago levels, while sales in the $350,000 to $650,000 range were up 26% during the same period. Clearly not everyone's house is valued as such, and rents are going up. But housing gains at the topmost part of the food chain look to have stagnated.  Perhaps the biggest sign is savings. The BLS says those with incomes above $150,000 spend the most on saving for retirement. That comes back to the S&amp;P, but it also comes back to the return you can get from keeping your money in the bank. Thanks to the Federal Reserve those returns have been practically nonexistent for half a decade now. Most analysts agree that the function Piketty describes as having exacerbated inequality is correct, although in a new speech White House economic adviser Jason Furman says there is no guarantee the function will hold in the future.  There's plenty of evidence to show Piketty is still correct. As of May 8, 2014, for instance, the U.S. labor force participation rate remained at lows not seen in decades. But for now we appear to be trending through a moment Piketty said was unlikely to happen. FREE AppDownload
