REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannAt first blush, the first-quarter earnings reports from American companies over the past three weeks look like a triumph. Seventy-five percent of the 375 firms that had reported as of May 5 beat estimates, well above the long-term average of 69 percent. Financial, technology, health care, and energy stocks accounted for three-quarters of those beats.  But the news wasn’t universally positive. For one thing, the expectations that many companies handily beat had already been revised down 4 percent since the start of the year. Beating reduced expectations is certainly better than missing them, but it’s not cause for unqualified celebration. Top-line numbers weren’t quite as compelling, either. Just 52 percent of companies beat revenue expectations, less than the historical average of 59 percent. Given those mixed results – and the fact that we’re now in the fifth year of an equities bull market – it’s worth asking whether we’re close to the end of a surprisingly strong bull run. The market has gyrated up and down over the last several months, and the S&amp;P 500 has had trouble sustaining any sort of forward momentum in 2014. It’s up just 1 percent (about 19 points) since the beginning of the year. Barbara Reinhard, Chief Investment Officer for Credit Suisse Private Banking Americas, says the road ahead for equities will continue to be “bumpy and volatile,” but it’s not time to prepare for a bear market just yet. Reinhard points out that U.S. credit spreads, which tend to widen several months ahead of equity market peaks, have actually gotten tighter since the beginning of the year. High-yield corporate bonds were paying an average of 371 basis points more than U.S. Treasuries at the end of April – less than the 377 basis-point spread in March and the 421-point spread at the end of January. One way to preserve upside opportunity with a little bit of downside protection, says Reinhard: Seek out cash-rich companies. Why now? Because American corporations seem finally to have decided that it’s time to start returning some of the cash that’s been piling up on their balance sheets to shareholders in the form of share buybacks and dividend increases. The $214 billion spent on share buybacks and dividends in the final three months of 2013 was the largest quarterly outlay in the last six years — and companies were still sitting on $1.6 trillion at year-end. “Apple’s announcement that it has earmarked another $30 billion for buybacks and that it would increase its quarterly dividend by 8 percent is certainly an indication that the trend may continue,” Reinhard said in a recent note to clients. A long-awaited M&amp;A boom may finally be making its appearance, too, with a rash of high profile deals like Comcast’s proposed $45 billion purchase of Time Warner Cable. Companies have announced $638 billion worth of transactions so far this year, which makes this the busiest January-to-May period since 1995. What’s more, in a departure from normal M&amp;A trends, shares of both acquisition targets and their buyers have jumped on the news, with average next day increases of 18 percent and 4.6 percent, respectively, according to Dealogic data cited in the Wall Street Journal. Among cash-rich corporates, Credit Suisse’s private bank analysts point to select “old tech” companies – the software and hardware firms that came before Google and Facebook, such as Microsoft, SAP, and Intel. Indeed, since late February, there’s been a marked rotation out of today’s technology stars into yesterday’s, leading the old guard to outperform both the sector and the market as a whole. Even so, “new tech” companies still have relatively high valuations compared to “old tech”, and the latter are sitting on bigger cash cushions. The original horsemen of tech, it seems, are riding again. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
