Flickr / ajariThe reliance on credit bureaus to accurately report an individual’s true credit status is more important now than ever. An error of any kind could drastically affect one’s FICO score, creating unnecessary difficulties toward obtaining credit that might otherwise be no problem. The Fair Credit Reporting Act was a milestone in regulating how credit bureaus operated, and it has been amended as necessary to incorporate changes in technology, reporting, and how credit is used in contemporary America. Up until recently, there were really only two ways to challenge an error on your credit report. Now, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has added new rules to make challenging errors easier, after receiving 31,000 complaints about fixing credit reporting errors. Previously, the first of two methods for fixing mistakes was to file a dispute directly with the credit bureau or bureaus — Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. The dispute, which could be filed by phone, letter, or on the website, was required to be displayed on the item in question. That way, a potential creditor could see the item was disputed, and potentially give the applicant an opportunity to prove the error when a credit decision was being made. The credit bureaus were then required to contact the “furnishing party” – the entity that dinged your credit – to check on the item’s accuracy. The process was mandated to take less than 45 days, and if there’s no response from the furnisher, the item gets deleted. The second method was to file a dispute directly with the furnisher, who is in turn required to tell the credit bureaus the item is in dispute. Even better, the furnisher had to investigate the claim, and if it was an error, the correction had to be made to the credit bureaus. There were many complaints with the old system, especially in regards to it being slow and having a difficult time proving your case. The CFPB has made the process less onerous. Rather than just make a general dispute, you are now permitted to offer supporting information to help prove your case. This includes copies of paid bills, police reports, proof of identity, or detailed correspondence regarding the issue. The more you submit to prove your case, the better – and now the credit agencies have to consider it all. Credit agencies are now required to forward your dispute along with all that information to the furnisher. If it corrects your information as a result of your dispute, it now must do so for each of the reporting agencies. That, in particular, is a huge benefit that wasn’t necessarily available before. All of this follows a very trying period of CFPB supervisory exams, in which the CFPB examined many aspects of how credit agencies operate. This included how they screened information for accuracy and made sure it linked to the right person. That the CFPB only made these changes (so far) after a 121-point exam at all of the big agencies should give consumers faith that the agencies are doing their best to protect our credit information, and report it properly. FREE AppDownload
