REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisAlexis Tsipras, the head of Greece's leftist Syriza group, during a pre-election rally in Athens on June 14, 2012. And according to most polls, that election would be won by Syriza, a crew of radical left-wingers who are demanding an end to Greece's austerity. Because of a weird Greek electoral law, if Syriza gets the most votes in a snap election, it would gain an extra 50 seats in parliament. This would strengthen the group even more. But what does the group actually want? The first thing to know is that Syriza isn't really a political party as such: It's a coalition. For example, although Syriza's position is not to abandon the use of the euro, the Left Platform bloc that makes up a big chunk of the alliance does want to quit the single currency.  As a result the group lacks a crystal-clear manifesto full of policies, but between the statement of intent published at its conference in 2013 and a speech given by leader Alexis Tsipras in September, we can get a pretty good idea. Much of Syriza's economic platform relates back to the Memorandum of Understanding between Greece and its international lenders, known as the Troika (the International Monetary Fund, European Commission, and European Central Bank). The agreement has meant some severe economic changes for Greece, like heavy reductions to public-sector pay, and Syriza wants the whole thing torn up.  Tsipras gave a speech in Thessaloniki three months ago that provides the building blocks of Syriza's program: The bottom line of all of this is that it's extremely expensive. The disagreements between Syriza and the finance ministry as to what this will all cost are pretty cosmetic. With 10-year bond yields at over 8%, any extra spending will be very difficult. Government spending might well be a very positive thing for Greece, but borrowing in a currency that the country is not in charge of complicates that. So the Syriza program also implies almost no co-operation at all with European institutions. The coalition is demanding things from the ECB and European Union that it simply won't do (like fund its programs). That means that for the first time, there may be an entire EU member state just refusing to go along with European policy, which is a massive challenge for the whole continent. FREE AppDownload
