REUTERSTraders buy and sell assets to make money. If buyers know they are buying into a bubble that is about to burst, they won’t buy the asset. And if there are no buyers for the asset, then the bubble would not exist. Logic dictates that a bubble can only exist if the buyers are “optimists” (a gentle word for those with “irrational exuberance”) or if the buyers believe there will be a “greater fool” to buy the asset in the future when prices are even higher. We can now start to build a theory of how debt stokes bubbles. John Geanakoplos has investigated how debt enhances the buying capacity of optimists, or those who are convinced that asset prices will continue to rise. By enhancing optimists’ buying power in the future, debt increases the probability that a greater fool will indeed be waiting tomorrow. Imagine a world with 100 identical houses for sale. Two types of people populate this world: optimists and pessimists. Pessimists believe that a house is only worth $100,000. Optimists, on the other hand, believe that the value of a house is 25 percent higher, at $125,000. So optimists are willing to buy a house for any price that is equal to or below this amount. This simple model of the world assumes “differences in beliefs” about asset prices, which, as anyone who has discussed house prices with a friend or family member knows, is a pretty realistic assumption. So what will the actual price of a house in this world be? It depends on the number of optimists versus pessimists. If there are enough optimists to buy 100 homes, then the sale price of all homes will be $125,000. But if there aren’t enough optimists and some houses must be bought by pessimists, then all houses must sell for $100,000. The reason for this is that competition implies that all identical houses must sell for the same price. As a result, the market price is equal to the lowest price that clears the market, the price that guarantees there will be at least 100 buyers. Suppose our world begins with no debt. Optimists have to pay cash to buy a house. Moreover, let’s say the total wealth of all optimists combined is limited to $2.5 million. As a result, they can buy no more than 20 houses at $125,000 a piece. The optimists can’t buy all the houses, and the price of houses must therefore drop to $100,000 to attract pessimists to buy. Without debt, the price of all houses is $100,000, and optimists buy 25 houses while pessimists buy the remaining 75 houses. How does the introduction of debt financing affect the price of houses? Suppose we now allow optimists to borrow 80 percent of the value of a house. In other words, for any home purchase, they only need to put 20 percent down in cash before getting the loan. The ability to borrow dramatically expands the buying power of the optimists. For every $1 of cash they put in, they can borrow $4 of debt. They can now leverage their cash of $2.5 million five times to buy houses worth up to $12.5 million. In fact, with the enhanced purchasing power that debt affords, optimists can buy all 100 houses in the market. When we introduce debt, the price of a house will be determined by the optimists’ willingness to pay. House prices immediately jump to $125,000 each when debt is introduced. In the world with debt, optimists buy all the houses. They put down 20 percent, or $25,000, for each house, and they borrow the rest. But who is willing to lend to the optimists? Nobody is willing to part with their hard-earned money unless they are sure they will get their money back without loss. Since there are only two types of people in our world, pessimists must be willing to lend in order for optimists to borrow. Will the pessimists lend? The pessimist thinks that a house is worth no more than $100,000, so he believes the optimist is overpaying. But he is perfectly willing to lend $100,000 to the optimist to buy the house for $125,000. Why? The pessimist has the house as collateral. In the pessimist’s judgment, the overly confident optimist will be forced to part with his down payment once the bubble bursts and prices return to their true valuation of $100,000. But the pessimist understands that his money is protected. He made a loan of $100,000, and the house is ultimately worth $100,000. In this simple example, debt facilitates an increase in the price of assets by enabling optimists to increase their influence on the market price. Ironically, it is the pessimists — even though they disagree with the valuation of optimists — who make it happen. Without help from pessimists, the optimists would not be able to raise the price of a house by 25 percent. This is a crucial lesson when we think of assigning blame after a crash. We are more than willing to blame “irresponsible home owners” who stretched to buy houses. But the house-buying binge was only possible given the aggressive lending behavior by banks. Debt raises house prices in the example above, but is this necessarily a bubble? We label people in our economy as either optimists or pessimists. Whether the increase in house prices represents a bubble depends on which of the two is right. If the optimist is right, then house prices will remain at the elevated level, and there will be no bursting of any bubble and no crisis. However, if pessimists are right, then the increase in house prices will be temporary and sometime in the future the bubble will burst. In addition to facilitating bubbles, debt also helps sustain them— for a while at least—due to its impact on expectations. A relaxation in access to debt means that more optimists can enter today and in the future. This bolsters the belief that there will be a greater fool who will buy the asset at even higher prices. And the party gets even bigger. The expectation of a bubble growing even more entices speculators to enter the market in addition to optimists. Notice that there is an element of animal spirits in our explanation of the housing boom, even when debt plays an important role. The optimists in our framework can be viewed as irrational buyers of homes, willing to pay more and more because they believe house prices will rise forever. In this sense, the debt view and the animal spirits view are not mutually exclusive. But the big difference is the role of debt. In the debt view, the bubble cannot get out of control unless irrational optimists are able to get debt financing to sustain it. Further, even rational speculators may enter the market if they believe that irrational optimists can still get loans as the bubble expands. Debt plays a crucial role. The distinction is important, because some argue that debt had little to do with the house-price bubble in the United States before the Great Recession. Reprinted with permission from House of Debt: How They (and You) Caused the Great Recession, and How We Can Prevent It from  Happening Again  by Atif Mian and Amir Sufi, published by the University of Chicago Press. © 2014 by Atif Mian and Amir Sufi. All rights reserved. FREE AppDownload
