The holding company of billionaire investor Carl Icahn posted a $355 million loss on revenues of $4.4 billion in its third-quarter earnings report. Icahn Enterprises took in a net income of $472 million on revenue of $5.8 billion at the same time last year. Icahn said in the release that $270 million of those losses were on the investing side of his business. More specifically, Icahn got clobbered on some energy investments. Now you may be saying to yourself: Apple, eBay, Hertz, Herbalife — these well-known Icahn investments are certainly not energy companies.  That is because the unsexy segments of Icahn's portfolio are often overlooked. Let's go over them. Talisman Energy Icahn tweeted that he had a 6% stake, about 61 million shares of the $300 million company, over a year ago, on Oct. 7, 2013. In that time the stock has fallen by more than 50%. Yahoo Finance CVR Energy This Icahn subsidiary posted dismal third-quarter earnings due in part to a fire in one of its refineries. In the period from April 30 to Sept. 30, the stock whipsawed down 9%. Federal-Mogul Holdings This is not an energy company (auto supply), but Icahn owns 80% of it, and it posted a third-quarter loss of $18 million. Seventy Seven Energy Icahn reported a 10% stake in the Oklahoma-based oil field services company this summer. In its third-quarter earnings the company reported a $1.8 million loss. The stock also fell about 7% between the time Icahn acquired it and Sept. 30.  Chesapeake Energy Icahn is the largest shareholder in Chesapeake with 66.45 million shares, and the stock fell more than 15% in the third quarter. Transocean Limited According to recent filings, Transocean makes up 2.5% of the Icahn portfolio. In the third quarter the stock lost 25% of its value.  Yahoo Finance This, of course, is just one quarter, as Icahn points out in his note to investors. "As I've said in the past, while I am extremely proud of our long-term record, there have always been sporadic speed bumps along the road. However, I believe over the long term, our model continues to be one of the best in the world," he said. So that's that. FREE AppDownload
