The most talked-about story in the market is oil, but there is a more important move happening in markets: US Treasury bonds are on fire. The yield on long-dated US Treasury bonds — meaning the 10- and 30-year bonds — has been falling sharply over the past week.  When long-dated bonds rally, it is taken as a sign that investors are "fleeing to safety" or "seeking protection," as US Treasury bonds are considered the safest investment you can make.  On Friday, the 30-year bond was pushing to new lows, with the yield hitting 2.76%, the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2012, or about two full years ago. Business Insider, data via Bloomberg The yield on the 10-year bond was also grinding lower, falling to as low as 2.09% on Friday. Business Insider, data via Bloomberg On Oct. 15, the crazy day in the market that saw the 10-year yield "flash crash" to as low as 1.86%, the 10-year settled at 2.14%, so a close below that level would mark a new low in what has been a huge year for Treasuries.  Unlike stocks, which "rally" or "gain" when prices rise, bonds are "rallying" or "gaining" when yields fall. And so while the stock market usually garners the most headlines, investors are increasingly watching the bond market, as strength in longer-dated Treasuries indicates increasing concern about the short-term prospects for the economy and other assets. But there are some other dynamics to keep in mind. DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach has posited that with European bond yields considerably lower than US bonds, there is no reason for US yields to rise. "It seems almost unthinkable to me that rates would go up against a backdrop of Spanish 10-year yields that are less than 2%," Gundlach told CNBC in November. Additionally, if Treasuries are priced based on expectations of growth, interest rates, and inflation, then it makes some sense that Treasury yields would fall as the declining price of oil is expected to tamp down inflation next year. And as the old market saying goes: "Treasuries are always right."   FREE AppDownload
