Kevin Maloney / Fortune Brainstorm Tech via Flickr Marc AndreessenActivist investor Carl Icahn is, once again, out with a new letter to eBay shareholders. Icahn has been going back and forth with eBay board member Marc Andreessen. And in the new letter, he doesn't pull punches. Andreessen's conflicts are "clear and insurmountable," he writes. Icahn has repeatedly gone after Andreesen for failing to have the company's best interest at heart in two specific deals — Skype and Keynetic. Icahn argues that Andreessen cost eBay shareholders a boatload of cash through the Skype deal, since his company bought a portion of the company instead of letting it IPO. For his part, Andreessen wrote this morning, "I dispute all accusations that I have violated any of my duties to eBay shareholders." Check out the full letter: Despite having just days ago professed a desire for “honest, accurate debate” on the issues, eBay declined CNBC’s offer to participate in a televised discussion with me. Then last Thursday eBay director Marc Andreessen attempted to defend his business practices to the Wall Street Journal but refused to directly address our assertions regarding his conflicts of interest. I think I am beginning to see a pattern here. I have a message for eBay’s board: You may be able to duck and weave when it comes to the media, but in a few short weeks you will have no choice but to face your stockholders at the annual meeting. We all deserve to know the truth about what really happened with Skype. THESE ARE THE FACTS AND WE BELIEVE THEY ARE INDISPUTABLE – THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS WHICH WE BELIEVE ARE RAISED BY THE ABOVE FACTS – We believe eBay and director Marc Andreessen have thus far refused to adequately clarify the public record. Therefore, we are in the process of demanding an inspection of eBay’s relevant books and records pursuant to our right as stockholders under Delaware law. We will attempt through our examination of these books and records to answer the above questions for ALL stockholders of eBay. In my opinion, Mr. Andreessen’s conflicts are clear and insurmountable. However, Mr. Andreessen attempted to defend himself, telling the Wall Street Journal that “he recuses himself from boardroom discussions that could involve companies his firm is backing.”[xi] Seriously? Mr. Andreessen expects eBay stockholders to be comforted by the fact that he self-polices himself? Excuse me if I do not find that nearly sufficient – especially in light of the Skype fiasco. As Jon Shazar at Dealbreaker eloquently noted when commenting on the Wall Street Journal interview: Carl Icahn thinks that eBay should spin off PayPal, and to prove it, he said a couple of eBay’s more prominent directors have more conflicts of interest than he has years. What he didn’t know is that one of them, Netscape founder and Silicon Valley legend Marc Andreessen, has a fool-proof system for avoiding such delicate situations: Whenever one of the seven boards of directors on which he serves starts talking about an area in which he has an interest—presumably all of them—he just closes his eyes and puts his headphones on and, presto, no conflict of interest.[xii] While that bit of hyperbole is no doubt funny, this is no laughing matter – especially when not only billions of dollars of stockholders’ money, but also the future long-term path of our company, hang in the balance. In closing, I will leave you with another quote from the Wall Street Journal interview: Charles Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware, said a director withdrawing from conversations may not be adequate to eliminate conflicts in some instances.“Recusal sounds great legally,” Mr. Elson said. “It’s pretty tough practically.”[xiii] We strongly believe that eBay management and the board should know better than to allow this to continue for one moment longer. Stockholders, please stay tuned. We are looking forward to sharing with you our business rationale for separating PayPal from eBay. Thank you for your continued support. Sincerely, Carl C. Icahn Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
