There is some good news: U.S. manufacturing activity picked up smartly in February after a steep decline the previous month. The latest jobs report showed that non-farm payrolls grew by 175,000 in February, a modest step up from the 129,000 revised figure for January and December’s dismal 84,000 number. In January, new-home sales hit their highest point since 2008. But that’s been the only positive data out of the housing market this year, and Credit Suisse’s homebuilders analyst Dan Oppenheim says the spectacular 10 percent gain will probably be revised lower next month. The 100-point homebuilder confidence index fell 10 points in February, and both existing-home sales and single-family housing starts fell to their lowest levels since the summer of 2012. The most troubling developments: The first two unemployment reports of the year showed lower-than-expected job growth in both December and January. Topping it all off, the U.S. GDP growth estimate for the fourth quarter of 2013 has been revised down from 3.2 percent to 2.4 percent, largely due to weak consumer spending. “Having pored over a lot of this data, I don’t see a lot of silver linings,” Credit Suisse Head of U.S. Macro Product Research Carl Lantz said on a recent call with investors. Credit Suisse’s economists have since revised their first quarter GDP growth estimate by a full percentage point to 1.6 percent. But they have not given up hope on the U.S. economy for the rest of the year. “We’ve just lost a quarter,” Lantz said. “I don’t think this changes the story for 2014.” It would be tempting to blame the relentlessly frigid weather along the East Coast and in the Midwest for the disappointing numbers. And it’s not difficult to believe that a 17 percent drop in housing starts in the Midwest last month had something to do with the area’s ceaseless snowstorms. But the weather didn’t cause all the problems: The Western U.S., where the weather has been warmer than average, experienced the sharpest decline in existing-home sales of any region at 7.3 percent. Retail sales were also down 0.4 percent in January. Even online shopping, which shouldn’t be affected by inclement weather, was down slightly. While it would also be convenient to attribute weaker-than-expected jobs data to the snowstorms, Credit Suisse economists point out that workers have to miss an entire pay period, not just a snow day or two, to go uncounted in the payroll survey. Credit Suisse believes the business cycle has more to answer for than the seasons. “The bulk of the slowing is probably more a reflection of normal cyclicality around a steady trend,” Lantz said in a recent note, “Weathering the Soft Patch.” For one thing, an inventory buildup that boosted GDP in the last half of 2013 is likely unwinding now, Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists noted in the bank’s most recent quarterly survey of the global economy, entitled “Speeding Up to Average.” The housing slowdown probably also owes something to both higher mortgage rates and a shrinking number of borrowers who meet the stricter loan requirements many lenders have implemented since the financial crisis. Still, Lantz thinks the underlying upward trend remains in place, and that if history is any gauge, things should pick up over the next two months. Economic data have taken a temporary turn for the worse several times since the Great Recession, including twice in 2013. On average, the dips have lasted 3.25 months. This time around, two full months have gone by, and Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists believe U.S. economic data could pick up before the end of April. The latest jobs report bolsters the notion that the slowdown will reverse itself. “While February wasn’t red-hot, the jobs figures provide a measure of reassurance following the woeful December and January reports,” Credit Suisse U.S. economist Jay Feldman wrote in a report called “Breaking News: U.S. Employment.” “Labor market progress remains patchy, but has not stalled out. The recent weakness appears more in the spirit of a typical soft patch rather than something more cyclically worrisome.” Credit Suisse, The FinancialistThe bank’s forecast for the global economy follows a similar trajectory to that of the U.S. – it’s slowing now, but should speed up again soon. The slowdown can be seen in the Credit Suisse Basic Materials Index, which tracks everything from oil demand in China and the U.S. to prices of basic commodities such as coal and copper to measure industrial production. In a note this month entitled “In Negative Territory,” Credit Suisse economists released the preliminary estimate for February, and it was negative for the second month in a row at -1.07 – a reading below zero indicates growth below the long-term average. January’s reading was also revised down from -0.35 to -1.44. As with the U.S. data, bad weather probably played some role in the industrial production reversal, particularly in the index’s shipping and transportation measures, such as U.S. trucking volumes. But it can’t explain everything. “[The] 2014 profile will be much flatter than previously expected,” the economists wrote. “[Industrial] production growth will hover around 4-4.5 percent in the first half of the year before accelerating slightly in the summer toward 5 percent.” So, the U.S. – and, by extension, the world – is experiencing a lost quarter, although it doesn’t look to be a lost year – yet. That might explain why financial markets have so far taken the bad news in their stride. At the beginning of February, the S&amp;P 500 was already down 4.9percentfor the year, as weak Chinese manufacturing numbers and lackluster U.S. data spooked investors. But the index has since recovered its gains and then some – at 1,874 as of Mar. 6, it was up 2.3percentsince the start of the year. What’s more, ten-year Treasury yields have hovered around the 2.7 percent range over the last month, despite the fact that bad economic news tends to push up the price of 10-year notes. With any luck, spring should remove weather as a confounding variable in U.S. economic data, and that’s when it should start to become clearer whether the lost quarter was a speed bump or the start of a lengthy slowdown. The answer matters: the markets won’t be happy if it’s the latter. FREE AppDownload
