REUTERS/Stephane MaheView of a Haliade 150 offshore wind turbine at Alstom's offshore wind site in Le Carnet, on the Loire Estuary, near Saint Nazaire, western France, April 27, 2014. U.S. industrial conglomerate General Electric Co is in advanced talks to buy the global power division of struggling French engineering group Alstom for about $13 billion, sources familiar with the matter said on Friday. France's government has said it wants to find alternatives to the GE offer on the turbines and power grid equipment business. GE, the US conglomerate, has submitted a $17bn offer to buy the energy businesses of France's Alstom. Alstom's board reacted "positively" to the offer and has appointed a committee of independent directors led by Jean-Martin Folz to review the transaction by June 2, GE said in a statement on Wednesday. "If this review concludes positively, an exclusivity period beginning no later than June 2 will be granted," the US company said. The next steps will include Works Councils consultation, approval from Alstom's shareholders, and clearance by regulators. GE said the deal would result in more jobs in France. Patrick Kron, the chairman and chief executive of Alstom, said: “The combination of the very complementary energy businesses of Alstom and GE would create a more competitive entity to better service customer needs. Alstom’s employees would join a well-known, major global player, with the means to invest in people and technology to support worldwide energy customers over the long term." Bouygues, which owns 29pc of Alstom, supports the deal, although Alstom will be able consider alternative proposals for the businesses. German industrial giant Siemens confirmed on Tuesday that it would make an offer the energy assets. Should Alstom decide to accept a Siemens offer it would be have to pay GE a break fee of 1.5pc of the purchase price. The French government has been holding talks with the chief executives of Siemens and GE about the future of the prized industrial company. President Francois Hollande has said he has no preference on the bidder but wants “what is best for jobs”. While the more outspoken Industry Minister, Arnaud Montebourg, has thrown his weight behind an alternative Siemens offer which could create a “European champion”. Siemens is understood to be much further away than GE in its ability to make a bid and said in a statement that “suitable due diligience” is a prerequisite of any offer. France’s Socialist government has already intervened in discussions to put the brakes on a sale of Alstom to the American suitor and give sufficient time for Siemens to be in a position to make a bid. Mr Montebourg, who previously told Indian industrial tycoon Lakshi Mittal he was “not welcome in France”, has said “the government does indeed intend to defend our country’s interests.”  FREE AppDownload
