Getty ImagesHelle Thorning-Schmidt is the first female prime minister in Denmark's history.Denmark's government is in turmoil after the Socialist People's Party (SF) quit the ruling coalition over a deal with Goldman Sachs, Lars Eriksen of the Guardian reports. The deal involves Goldman purchasing a 19% stake in state-owned utility Dong Energy for $1.5 billion. Denmark’s shareholding would fall to about 60%. Despite the walkout, the deal has been approved and the government is expected survive. “We are pleased with the approval of this transaction and look forward to making this significant minority investment alongside the Danish State, ATP, PFA and the existing minority shareholders," a Goldman Sachs spokesperson told BI. "This is a long-term commitment which reflects our support for the management team's current strategy across the Company’s activities, including the significant renewable energy investments, which we believe will create value for all stakeholders.” (For an analysis on the financials of the deal, check out this post from Guan Yang.) Denmark's Socialist People's Party withdrew its six ministers from the 23-member Cabinet. Party leader Annette Vilhelmsen noted that she would continue to support the ruling coalition. Meanwhile, some center-left politicians accused the government of betrayal. Milne notes that the minority government of Thorning-Schmidt has been fragile since it was formed in 2011, but the bid by the fifth-largest U.S. bank has caused the most serious threat to its survival. “The Dong share sale is putting more nails in the government’s coffin,” Christoffer Green-Pedersen, a political science professor at the University of Aarhus, told Bloomberg. Bloomberg reports that 68% of Danes are against Goldman holding the stake and thousands of protesters gathered outside the parliament last night to voice their anger over the deal. An online petition gathered more than 185,000 signatures against the deal.  Aarhus-protest mod regeringens salg af DONG-aktier til Goldman Sachs. Stiften.dk #Aarhus #aarhuspol #dong #stiften pic.twitter.com/JpmJ28cSwP  FREE AppDownload
