This is a big week for employees at US investment banks. Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, BAML and Citi all report their full year results for 2013. Employees at those banks will also be told their 2013 bonuses. Ahead of that moment – and before European banks’ results next month – here’s a brief run through of expectations regarding pay based on average accruals in the first nine months. In summary, most banks look likely to cut pay per head by an average of 5% – although Credit Suisse and RBS are on track to cut by substantially more. UBS is on track to increase pay in its investment bank. Quantum: By the end of Q3, Credit Suisse had accrued CHF4.1bn to pay its investment bankers, working out at an average of CHF263k per head. If Credit Suisse continues to accrue at the same rate, it should pay its average investment banker CHF350k ($388k) for 2013. Likely direction: Down. In the first nine months of 2013, Credit Suisse cut average pay per head by 16% – more than any other bank except RBS. Quantum: At the end of the third quarter, Deutsche Bank had accrued a total of €4.3bn with which to pay people in its corporate and investment bank. This worked out an average of €173k per head, suggesting that Deutsche will be paying around €231k ($315k) per head for the full year. Likely direction: Down. Average pay per head fell 4% in the first three quarters of 2013 vs. the same period of 2012. Quantum: At the end of the third quarter, Goldman had accrued a total compensation pool of $10.4bn. With 32,600 employees, this worked out at an average of $320k per head. If Goldman accrues at the same rate during the fourth quarter, the implication is that it will pay an average of $427k for the full year. In fact, it may pay slightly less – the rate of pay accrual typically slows in the final months of the year. Likely direction: Down. During the first nine months of 2013, average pay per head at Goldman was down 5% on 2012. Quantum: JPMorgan no longer reports results for its investment bank alone, choosing to bundle them up with results for its commercial bank. This obfuscates how much its investment bankers are getting paid. In the first nine months, total compensation accrued for people at JPMorgan’s corporate and investment bank totaled $8.7bn, which worked out at $166k per head. For the full year, the average JPMorgan corporate and investment banker should earn $221k. Likely direction: Down. In the first nine months pay per head at JPMorgan’s corporate and investment bank fell 5% on 2012. Rumour has it that its investment banking bonuses will be flat versus the previous year. Quantum: Morgan Stanley doesn’t break out the number of people it employs in its institutional securities division, making it impossible to compute pay per head. However, in the first nine months it accrued a total of $5.3bn in compensation and benefits expenditure, suggesting its total investment banking pay pot should be around $7bn for the full year. Likely direction: Down. Morgan Stanley’s $5.3bn accrual in the first nine months was 3% lower than in the same period of 2012. For more predictions, head to eFinancial Careers&gt; This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
