 Etihad, the Abu Dhabi-based national carrier of the United Arab Emirates, has created the closest thing to having you own private jet on its commercial flights. Etihad It’s called ‘The Residence’ – a 11.6-square-metres (125ft sq) 3-room upper-deck cabin on Etihad A380s with a living room, separate double bedroom (1.2m wide), ensuite shower room and personal butler, trained at London’s Savoy Butler Academy, as well as a travel concierge on hand, plus a chef to cook whatever passengers fancy Etihad Danni Minogue takes you through it in the video above. Etihad Etihad has also upped the ante in first class on A380s, with new private suites, ‘First Apartment’, 74% larger that its existing suites, with Poltrona Frau leather reclining armchair and 203cm-long ottoman that transforms into a flat bed, swivelling 86cm TV, mini-bar, personal vanity unit and wardrobe, all behind a 162cm-high sliding door. Etihad First Class also has a shower room and Etihad A380s have mobile and Wi-fi access. While Australia won’t see the A380 until June 2015, if you’re keen to try the service between Abu Dhabi and London, expect to pay around USD $20,000 for the pleasure, whether it’s one or two passengers. Etihad Launching the new services in Abu Dhabi today, Etihad announced it’s also increasing the space in business class ‘studios’ by 20 per cent on current configuration for both the A380 and B787. First and business class also has a communal space known as The Lobby, a bar and lounge with a semi-circular leather sofa, a marquetry table and large TV screen.  Etihad The airline is also upgrading to Panasonic eX3 entertainment systems with 750 hours of on-demand entertainment, improved gaming and video touchscreen handsets. There’s also USB connection to the TV, so you can plug in and watch your own stuff, plus live channels too. If you find yourself stuck back in business class, you just might survive the ordeal in the new studio space.  Etihad This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
