AP ImagesMario Draghi.European Central Bank president Mario Draghi held a news conference after the latest monetary policy decision from the ECB saw the bank unexpectedly cut interest rates. Draghi announced that the ECB would begin a quantitative easing program in October, comprised of asset-backed securities and euro-denominated covered bonds. Draghi said the ECB was unanimous in its commitment to using additional and unconventional instruments if needed to address risks of a prolonged period of inflation. Draghi said the economic recovery in Europe was likely to be dampened by: unemployment, balance sheet adjustments in the private and public sectors, and negative loan growth. The ECB also cut its 2014 and 2015 GDP projections, while revising its 2016 projection upward. The ECB expects 2014 GDO of 0.9%, down from a prior view of 1%, while 2015 GDP is expected to come in at 1.6% against previous expectations for 1.7%. In 2016, the ECB sees GDP growing at 1.9%, up from 1.8% previously. Draghi also acknowledged that heightened geopolitical risks may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions. The ECB said it expected inflation to remain low through 2016. Expectations for inflation in 2014 are 0.6%; 1.1% in 2015; and 1.4% in 2016. As he did in Jackson Hole, Draghi again said that fiscal policies had hurt economic growth, and he said that euro-area countries should not unravel the economic progress made with fiscal consolidation. Draghi added that important structural steps had been taken in some eurozone countries but not in others. The full text of Draghi's prepared comments can be read here.  Draghi said in response to a question that the ECB's rate decision was not unanimous. He said additional easing measures were discussed, with some members wanting to do more than announced Thursday, and others wanting to do less.  Draghi also said that a broader asset purchase program was discussed. In response to a question about what he considered quantitative easing, or QE, Draghi said QE was the outright purchase of assets and could be based on private- or public-sector assets, or both. Draghi said that Thursday's measures were oriented toward "credit easing" but that it was also clear the ECB would buy outright the senior tranche of asset-backed securities. Draghi also said that it was difficult to immediately assess the size of the program announced on Thursday. Draghi said most of the reason behind the decision to act at Thursday's meeting was tied to the downward movement in inflation indicators in August. With regard to interest rates, and banks that are considering participating in the ECB's first TLTRO, or targeted long-term refinancing operation, Draghi said: "We are at the lower bound." Draghi said the ECB staff saw a return of inflation because of recovery, exchange rates, monetary policy, and the increase of certain goods, notably food.  Draghi said that for central banks, it was hard to reach inflation goals only based on monetary policy. "You need growth, you need low unemployment, and for that, you need other things," Draghi said.  Draghi said there was no "grand bargain" but added that bankers and politicians "simply need to do their own jobs." Draghi said that in urging structural reforms, countries shouldn't lose sovereignty but share sovereignty the way they do with the eurozone.  Inflation expectations are still anchored, Draghi said, but the ECB has seen downside risks for inflation expectations increasing.  Also regarding inflation, Draghi said there had been low inflation but not deflation. Draghi said there had been several forecast errors in inflation expectations and that the price of food and energy had been a major part of this miscalculation. He added that unemployment and currency appreciation had added to this of late. The ECB cut its main refinancing rate to 0.05%, its marginal lending facility to 0.3%, and its deposit facility to -0.2%. These rates were expected to remain unchanged at 0.15%, 0.4%, and -0.1%, respectively. FREE AppDownload
