Is your chief executive all me, me, me? If so, your company is at a higher risk of fraud, according to a study that finds Hong Kong has the world's most narcissistic chief executives. Researchers measured the number of times the chief executives used the first person singular, based on their conversations with analysts and reporters. Using that as a proxy, the team calculated the narcissism level of chiefs at 1,000 companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, all the firms on the Hang Seng Index and some listed in London and Australia. The team, led by Alex Frino, dean of the Macquarie Graduate School of Management in Australia, found the two most narcissistic chiefs in the world ran Hang Seng Index firms in the insurance and property sectors, with scores of 56.36 and 53.66 per cent. Frino declined to name them but identified Bank of China boss Li Lihui as the least narcissistic, with a score of 11.06 per cent. The average level of narcissism among Hong Kong chiefs was the same as that among those at New York Stock Exchange firms at 26 per cent, said Lim Ying Ming, a finance academic at the Sydney-based management school. Researchers found that the more narcissistic a chief executive of an NYSE-listed firm, the more likely its books were to be cooked. Study on the Hong Kong part of this aspect is under way. "Chief executives who are more narcissistic are more likely to manipulate profits," Frino told the South China Morning Post. "They often believe the profit figures measure their performance. It's about them personally." Chief executives of NYSE-listed firms with a narcissism score of 37.6 per cent were found to inflate profits by 14 per cent on average, while those with a score of 29.4 per cent inflated by 9 per cent and those with a score of 14 per cent or less did not cook the books. The paper cites Jeffrey Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron Corp, who is serving a 14-year jail term in the United States for felony charges. Frino and his team found Skilling's narcissism level to be the 88th-highest among the 1,000 chiefs of firms listed on the NYSE. Though considered a negative trait, narcissism in chief executives could also be a good thing for companies, another study found this year. A study by the Journal of Management Accounting Research quantified narcissism by the size and composition of a chief's photograph in the annual report and his or her pay compared with the next-highest executive. It found companies led by narcissistic chief executives reported higher earnings per share and share prices than those with non-narcissistic ones. But it found that the methods narcissistic chiefs might use to shore up performance could harm a firm's long-term health. FREE AppDownload
