Jay Yarow/Business InsiderComputers operated by the power of thought, wearable technology and advanced cancer treatments are among the top ten emerging technologies which will reshape the future, a new report claims. The World Economic Forum has compiled a list of the most potentially influential technologies currently being developed which also includes mining metals from the desalination of sea water and super-light cars made using carbon-fibre elements. Each innovation was selected for its capacity to have a real and positive impact on the world, according to the WEC’s Global Agenda Council on Emerging Technologies which made its selections with the help of leading figures from industry and academia. Topping the list is “brain-computer interfaces” which would build on the already available technology which allows people to type by monitoring their electrical activity in their brain. The technology could make it possible for people with disabilities to operate wheelchairs and other equipment using their thoughts, according to the council. In its report the council stated: “Technology has become perhaps the greatest agent of change in the modern world. While never without risk, positive technological breakthroughs promise innovative solutions to the most pressing global challenges of our time, from resource scarcity to global environmental change. “However, due to a lack of appropriate investment, outdated regulatory frameworks and gaps in public understanding, many promising technologies are constrained from achieving their potential.” According to the report there is hope for arid countries which see very little rainfall as the mining of metals from waste water or brine is making large-scale desalination financially viable for the first time, while the drive to cut carbon emissions could be boosted by cars built with carbon-fibre reinforced parts making them up to 40 per cent lighter and stronger than older models, offering huge energy savings. Cleaner energy will benefit from advances in grid-scale electricity storage which would allow surplus energy from fluctuating renewable sources such as sun and wind to be stored until it is needed while new batteries based on silicon could hold up to three times more power than existing products. New wearable electronics, which are already available in the form of the Google Glass and Fitbit wristband, could offer health benefits by tracking heart rates and stress levels while new cancer treatments are being by harnessing the power of microbes which occur naturally in the human body. Other medical research is focusing on drugs based on proteins which regulate human genes which could be used to fight cancer and infectious diseases. Noubar Afeyan, chair of the Global Agenda Council on Emerging Technologies and CEO of Flagship Ventures, said: “These breakthroughs show the boundless potential for technology to have a positive impact on society, from finding cleaner energy to new cures for disease. “For these gains to be realized, we need the right regulatory frameworks, strategic alliances among innovators and market leaders, investment capital, as well as greater public awareness.” The council wants to see governments working with researchers and businesses to promote the emerging technologies which could bring great improvements to many people’s lives. Martina Larkin, senior director and head of the Network of Global Agenda Councils, said: “2014 will be a crucial year for these technologies. Close cooperation between governments, industry and academia is essential to harness their potential.” The full list of the top ten emerging technologies: Brain-computer interfaces: It is already possible to type just by monitoring the electrical activity of your brain, but as the technology advances, it could be possible for people with disabilities to operate wheelchairs using only their thoughts. Mining metals from desalination brine: Large-scale desalination is becoming economically feasible for the first time because of new chemical processes that enable the mining of metals from waste water, or brine. Nanostructured carbon composites: Cars made from carbon-fibre reinforced composites are as much as 40% lighter than older models, stronger, and more easy to recycle, offering the prospect for huge energy savings. Grid-scale electricity storage: A fundamental breakthrough is close that would allow the saving of surplus energy from fluctuating renewable sources such as sun and wind within the electricity grid. Body-adapted wearable electronics: Whether worn on the body, embedded in clothes or even under the skin, these devices can track information, such as heart rate and stress levels, giving people real-time feedback about their health. Nanowire lithium-ion batteries: New batteries based on silicon – using tiny silicon nanowires – could have a longer life, charge more quickly and hold up to three times the power of existing batteries. Screenless display: A 3D image projected into space – a “screenless display” – can convey information that a 2D image presented on a screen cannot, and is close to becoming a practical reality. Human microbiome therapeutics: Drawing on knowledge gained from the Human Microbiome Project in 2012 and other research, human microbiome technology is increasingly seen as an important source of treatment for serious diseases as well as for improving health. RNA-based therapeutics: RNA, like DNA, plays a part in protein synthesis and, to a lesser extent, the transmission of genetic information. Scientific advances are combining to enable a new generation of targeted, RNA-based drugs that could help find new treatments for cancer and infectious diseases Quantified self (predictive analytics): RNA, like DNA, plays a part in protein synthesis and, to a lesser extent, the transmission of genetic information. Scientific advances are combining to enable a new generation of targeted, RNA-based drugs that could help find new treatments for cancer and infectious diseases  FREE AppDownload
