EIAIn response to Iran’s strategic grip over oil passing through the Strait of Hormuz, a new export route for crude from the Persian Gulf is growing on the coast of the Arabian Sea, with the potential to transform global energy markets. Giant tankers now queue in lines stretching for miles to load oil or refuel at Fujairah — a sleepy sheikhdom in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) — after the government invested billions of dollars into building a giant oil pipeline across the rugged Hajar mountains, with the aim of ending the potential stranglehold that Iran could place on the nation’s exports of crude. The 21-mile-wide Hormuz channel handles a third of the world’s oil-tanker traffic and connects the Persian Gulf’s sheikhdoms to the Arabian Sea. Fears that Tehran could choke off exports shipped through it have been a concern weighing on oil markets for decades. In 2008, worries that Iran would blockade the strait helped to send oil prices skyrocketing to a record $147 per barrel, a level not achieved since. But the opening of a 240-mile long, 48in-wide export pipeline two years ago, linking the UAE’s biggest oil fields with the Arabian Sea, has alleviated these concerns and could now transform Fujairah from a quiet port used by ships to refuel into a global energy trans-shipment hub. “Fujairah is the only emirate that has significant access to the ocean, and it has been on our eye to utilise this strategic position and location as an export route,” Suhail Al-Mazrouei, minister of energy for the UAE, told The Daily Telegraph, on the sidelines of an energy forum hosted by The Gulf Intelligence. “The infrastructure that Fujairah now has today and will have in the future makes it a major city and a major destination for the energy sector.” The pipeline from Habshan in the emirate of Abu Dhabi currently carries about 800,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude — equal to Britain’s entire output from the North Sea — but has the capacity to handle up to 1.5m bpd. The advantage for oil tankers loading crude in Fujairah is that vital delivery time is saved that otherwise would be wasted sailing back and forth through the overcrowded Strait of Hormuz. Loading at Fujairah is also cheaper for tankers, which don’t have to pay the costly indemnity rates required to enter the Persian Gulf. REUTERS/Mosab Omar A UAE police boat sails past the M Star oil tanker at sea near Fujairah port in the United Arab Emirates on July 29, 2010. The logic of shifting more export capacity outside the Gulf is also catching on with other exporters in the region. Oman is planning to build a new multibillion-dollar oil export hub at Ras Markaz, about 450 miles south of the UAE. Although the sultanate already loads and stores its own crude from outside the Gulf, the Ras Markaz will provide it with enough capacity potentially to export oil from other countries in the region. In addition, the government of the UAE plans to invest billions of dollars to build the largest facilities to import liquefied natural gas (LNG) in the entire Middle East at Fujairah to help meet surging domestic demand for electricity and desalinated water. According to Mr Al-Mazrouie, Fujairah is the most strategically secure location in the emirates to build the new facilities. “We are going to import LNG and the UK is already importing LNG so that makes the people of the UAE and the UK concerned about the security of the same commodity. “It is the same when you are talking about the utilization of energy as a whole. I think energy, whether in the UK or Germany or here, is everyone’s concern. “We’re concerned on the level of consumption — we want to reduce consumption, to learn from Europe on the conservation of energy, and we are adopting new laws on the conservation of energy because of this. So when it comes to the subject of energy, I think we are all connected, like it or not,” he said. Aside from the new LNG import facilities, major projects are planned to expand its crude oil storage capacity to 12m barrels and to provide loading infrastructure for huge 330-meter-long (360-yard) class of tankers known as Very Large Crude Carriers. “The Habshan oil pipeline has given companies the confidence to invest in Fujairah for the first time,” said Capt Mousa Morad, general manager of the port of Fujairah. “We are emulating Dubai but for the sea.” Although Fujairah’s recent growth has come mainly from the new pipeline, the port has played an important role as a safe bunkering terminal ever since shipping in the Gulf was threatened during the Iran-Iraq war in the early Eighties. The presence last week of a Chinese naval flotilla reportedly visiting the Iranian port of Bandar Abbas in the Gulf for the first time is further evidence of potential future flash points. However, the strategic location of Fujairah at the gateway to the world’s biggest oilfields was even apparent as early as the Second World War. A few miles off the coast lies the wreck of a German U-boat sunk by a British bomber in 1943 on its way to the Gulf. The submarine — the only such vessel thought to have reached the Arabian Peninsula in the war — had been sent by Adolf Hitler to sink British tankers bringing vital fuel out of the region. Today, the submarine, which rests at the bottom of the Arabian Sea, is near a popular local fishing spot, but it is also a poignant reminder of Fujairah’s strategic location at the gateway to a region that lays claim to 60pc of the world’s proven oil reserves.  FREE AppDownload
