"...between 2010 and 2012 the overall population of Detroit declined by 1.7%.  But the devil is in the details.  Over the same period Detroit's white population increased by 3%, while its black population decreased by the same amount."   That seemed like the possible beginning of a shifting story.  So I looked into racial and ethnic demographic numbers for Detroit's usual-suspect peer cities: Buffalo, Cleveland, Milwaukee and Pittsburgh.  I also threw Chicago in since it's the undisputed capital of the region. Here's what I found: Change in Population, 2010-12 That is indeed the beginning of a shifting story.  If this is accurate (and caveats do apply; ACS data has been wildly variable from year to year), Detroit's white population is growing faster than that of its close peer cities.  This is a remarkable feat, considering that Detroit's white population decreased in every Census from 1950 to 2010, declining from 1.6 million in 1950 to just 55,000 in 2010. I think what may be happening in Detroit doesn't compare with the peer cities above; it probably compares more favorably to demographic changes over the last 20 years in Washington, DC (post Marion Barry and insolvency, leading to a financial control board), and the last eight years in New Orleans (post Katrina).  DC and NOLA were both heavily African-American cities hit with disaster, either financial or natural, and rebounded after hitting their nadir.  In the cities the white population has rebounded while the African-American population has either dropped (NOLA) or remained steady (DC). DC's white population has grown at an annualized rate of more than five percent a year since 2005, while NOLA's white population has grown at a slower 2.5 percent rate.  A quick and easy prediction for what might lie ahead for Detroit over the next 10-20 years is something between the DC and NOLA examples.  Detroit does not have the dynamic economy that DC does, but likely does have a little more kick than NOLA.  We'll see what happens. This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
