Forget fame and glamour: The buyers of Manhattan’s most costly real estate are often not the boldfaced names that appear in the gossip pages. Those spending $40 million or more on a home are seldom bankers, starlets, tech billionaires or Russian oligarchs and their children, brokers say. Instead, these big spenders often tend to have roots in the working classes, making their fortunes from manufacturing, inventions and sales. “Everyone expects buyers at this price point to be extremely glamorous, but really they are the minority,” said Leonard Steinberg, who leads the luxury brokerage team at Douglas Elliman. “Ninety percent of buyers in the $40 million-plus range are just extremely clever people that have invested wisely, or invented something extraordinary.” Steinberg is currently marketing a 7,250-square-foot condo penthouse at the Elad Group’s 250 West Street, for $39.5 million. And despite the apartment’s hefty price tag so far, the potential buyers coming to view the property have been largely under-the-radar players with unrecognizable names. And while Steinberg stressed the growing influence of highly cosmopolitan foreign billionaires on the New York market —from places like China, Russia and Western Europe, as well as new wealth emerging in countries like Nigeria, South Africa and Mexico — he said Americans are still the primary buyers of this type of home. For example, one potential buyer who recently viewed the property was a towel manufacturer. But the buyer’s fortune was not built on a recognizable name brand of bath or beach towel, nor through sales at big retail chains. Instead, she produced towels distributed exclusively at wholesale centers — hardly haute couture. “You have to think, who invented the technology in your keyboard? Who manufactured the screws and hinges in the products all around you? Who innovated the latest medical device?” Steinberg asked. “Buyers in this market usually aren’t people who got rich raping the system. They tend to be either ingenious or rather lucky.” While Wall Streeters, technology millionaires, heirs and TV, movie and sports stars obviously have millions to spend, brokers say those buyers usually top out below the $40 million price point. There are, of course, exceptions — like Leslie Alexander, the billionaire owner of Houston Rockets, who snapped up a $42 million unit at 18 Gramercy Park South last year (see “A drop at the top”). But more often than not, the $40 million-plus buyers work in obscure fields. Indeed, while senior executives at the big global banks often earn total compensation packages that come in around $20 million, in many cases much of that headline number isn’t in cash. Typically, half or even two-thirds of their total will come from restricted stock awards or options that vest over time, making their fortunes less liquid. There are, of course, exceptions — hedger funder Bill Ackman and a group of investors are reportedly in contract for a $90 million unit at Extell Development’s One57 — but there are also more than a few New York City trophy homes listed above $40 million. In fact, approximately 30 homes in the city are currently on the market for $40 million or more, according to real estate listings website StreetEasy. Sotheby’s International Realty’s Elizabeth Sample, who along with partner Brenda Powers has four properties listed at $50 million or above, added that there are currently at least another five off-market “whisper” listings in the same price range. But don’t expect Hollywood glitterati or high-visibility TV and music personalities to chase those properties. Stars typically buy at lower price points. Continue reading at The Real Deal &gt; FREE AppDownload
