Flickr/Joi ItoMarc Andreessen is one of Bitcoin's biggest supporters, having invested some $50 million in firms dealing in the digital currency. He also recently published an op-ed in the New York Times on how Bitcoin will change finance. So it's not too surprising that he remains completely undeterred by what by most accounts is the massive failure of Bitcoin exchange MtGox.  In a statement obtained by CNBC's Becky Quick, Andreessen compared MtGox's troubles to MF Global — which is to say, tragic for customers but not systemic to the overall Bitcoin ecosystem.  MF Global is the former brokerage run by former New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine that in 2011 filed for bankruptcy after experiencing a massive cash shortfall. The exact reasons for why MtGox has apparently shut down remain unknown, although there is a growing consensus that a kind of slow-drip theft by hackers exploiting a vulnerability in Gox's wallet software ultimately drained the company of millions of dollars' worth of Bitcoin. This may have required the use of customer funds to shore up liquidity.    Here's Andreessen's full comment to Quick: Legendary entrepreneur Marc Andreessen @pmarca tells @beckyquick why he is defending #bitcoin pic.twitter.com/hDcQQVqoj5 Market price of BTC (Bitcoin) dropped going into MtGox shutdown, and then has risen since. This is exactly what one would predict for a normally functioning financial market without systemic risk. MtGox had to die for Bitcoin to thrive. Its former role from early Bitcoin days has been supplanted by better, stronger entities. People learning about or trading Bitcoin should deal with reputable, well-run, well-backed companies such as Coinbase (our choice). Important to know that Bitcoin protocol &amp; transaction network doing just fine in wake of MtGox shutdown --&gt; no substantive technical issue. Every important new technology has birthing pains. PC did, Web did, Bitcoin does. Our enthusiasm and commitment unchanged. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
