Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesStock market leadership virtually always changes when volatility significantly spikes, and the 2008 bear market was no exception. Credit-related asset classes led the markets for the decade prior to 2008 as the global credit bubble inflated. Since 2008’s bear market, however, leadership has significantly changed and credit-related asset classes have generally underperformed plain, old-fashioned stocks. Chart 1 below shows the relative performance of credit-related asset classes versus the S&amp;P 500® from 1998 to 2008 and from 2008 to present. The deflation of the global credit bubble has clearly hurt the performance of credit-related asset classes. The deflation of the global credit bubble remains the prime driver of our positioning for 2015. We continue to underweight or fully avoid credit-related asset classes. RBA The European Central Bank (ECB) seems to be trying very hard to be among the worst central banks in history. The ECB actually tightened monetary policy over the past couple of years despite mounting evidence of budding deflation. One does not need a Ph.D. in Economics to know that tightening monetary policy in the face of deflation and contracting private sector credit growth is not a sound monetary policy. The ECB’s continuous missteps have resulted in significantly subpar growth. The ECB is now claiming they will significantly expand their balance sheet, and such actions might be bullish for European equities. However, recent data suggests they have so far only stopped tightening, and have yet to start easing. If they alter that policy, then European stocks might again be attractive, however, the ECB’s sclerotic policy reaction to building deflation warrants an underweight of European equities. Our portfolios remain underweight Europe, with exposure limited to large cap and defensive stocks. Early in my career at EF Hutton in 1986, our auto analyst stated in our morning meeting that Toyota felt they could gain market share from GM at 120 ¥/$. ¥/$ was 160 at the time, and the entire meeting broke up in laughter. No one could believe that the dollar would depreciate 25% versus the Yen and, if it ever did, Toyota would never gain market share. The Yen eventually traded to 80¥/$, and Toyota nearly put GM out of business. The point to the story is that Japan at the time had a significant competitive advantage versus the United States. The fact that the Yen might appreciate was a minor hindrance to Japanese companies gaining market share versus US companies. Today, however, Japan’s competitive advantage has been whittled away by the combination of Japanese demographics, Japan’s lack of domestic investment in productive resources, and the improvement in productivity in other parts of the world (including the US). In the absence of a competitive advantage, companies or countries are forced to compete on price in order to gain market share, and we believe depreciating the Yen is the only route for the Japanese economy to re-emerge within the time frame of most investors. We began this theme when ¥/$ was roughly 85, and we think the Yen may weaken significantly even from today’s depressed levels (roughly 120).We remain overweight Japan with an emphasis on large cap exporters of finished goods. We have become somewhat notorious for our liking of treasuries as a portfolio diversifier. Although not as extreme as it was several years ago, Chart 2 shows the correlation of various asset classes to the S&amp;P 500® and there are relatively few asset classes that have negative correlation to stocks. By including treasuries, we can take stronger risk positions within our multi-asset portfolios, but not increase overall portfolio volatility. High yield municipal bonds are a sizeable portion of most of our multi-asset portfolios because we view them as the most attractive sector of the global fixed-income markets. It seems ironic to us that investors are taking all sorts of risks in sectors like emerging market debt, but refuse to look at US high yield munis.Chart 3 shows the spread between high yield munis and Iraq government bonds. The spread implies that US high yield municipal bonds are riskier than Iraqi bonds. Isn’t there a brutal civil war taking place in Iraq? One might question fiscal responsibility in Illinois or Michigan, but they’re certainly not Iraq! Whereas high-beta social media stocks and other “disruptor” stocks (as CNBC calls them) are extraordinarily expensive, other more traditional high-beta stocks appear historically undervalued. Chart 4 shows the relative PE of low beta and high beta stocks within the S&amp;P 500®. This chart clearly suggests that investors remain very scared of traditional high beta stocks, but we have significant exposure to this traditional high-beta group which is historically undervalued. RBAOur overall positioning of avoiding credit-related asset classes remains largely out-of-favor, and remains the cornerstone of our portfolios. We will watch these themes closely and reposition accordingly should a more favorable cyclical backdrop potentially outweigh this secular trend. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
