Matt Boesler posted an interesting chart today showing a leading relationship between house price appreciation &amp; owners' equivalent rent (OER). Expounding on this idea and data set results in some interesting conclusions about the likely trajectory of core inflation in the U.S. Housing, technically shelter, is the largest component of the core consumer price index (CPI), with a 42% weight in the basket. Shelter is decomposed into primary residence rent and owners' equivalent rent (to have a smooth proxy for housing prices). OER and housing prices have seen material divergences since the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller 20-city index began being published in 2000. However, a closer look shows a strong lead-lag relationship between the year-over-year percentage changes in OER versus Case-Shiller, with some data fitting leading to 21 months as a useful time lead. Linear and polynomial (3-degree) regressions with this time lead are presented below. Macro Beat/Naufal Sanaullah Using this regression analysis to model % YoY OER, and linearly standardizing the modeled OER (to account for much wider range of % YoY rates in housing prices versus rents), a rough but useful projection of future OER, and consequently housing price inflation, is in the pipeline based on the leading indicator of housing price growth. With this, we constructed a projection for housing's net contribution to core CPI % YoY, which is presented below. Macro Beat/Naufal Sanaullah Based on current housing prices, the model suggests that housing alone will provide 100-140 gross basis points to core CPI YoY growth rates by H2 2015, or 50-70% of the way to target inflation. This includes an approximately 40bps increase in net bps contribution to core CPI YoY, in the next 21 months, implying that even if non-shelter core inflation rates stagnate at their current 0.46% YoY rates — all the way through 2015 — core inflation will still return to Fed target. If non-shelter core inflation rates can simply reverse solely their 2013 deceleration, over the course of the next 21 months, the implied core inflation rate would be just under 3%, and 1yr fwd inflation expectations (the FOMC FG criterion relevant to rate policy) would likely have breached the FOMC's 2.5% symmetrical target ceiling. These scenarios serve to illustrate how impactful the extra 40bps net housing contribution to CPI can be. Macro Beat/Naufal Sanaullah Looking beyond housing, there are good reasons to believe that non-shelter inflation is poised to accelerate materially and be the driving force behind overall inflation acceleration: Vince Foster had a terrific piece over the weekend analyzing the recent behavior of long-term yields. Although I share his concerns about long-term NGDP potential growth rates for the US (absent immigration boom, public infrastructure investment, etc), especially regarding the question of not being able to escape ZIRP again in next recession, I think that US core inflation is set up for cyclical acceleration. I expect to write soon about some of Vince's arguments, as well as some of the near-term risks I see in the global economy. FREE AppDownload
