For years, there wasn’t much new or exciting in the world of whiskey. Old bottles collected dust while consumers instead sought out craft beers and wines or resorted to hard liquor standbys like vodka and gin. But that’s started to change. The prototypical whiskey drinker may have once been an older gentleman enjoying an afternoon Scotch-on-the-rocks, but bourbon and whiskey hold a growing appeal to young people and women, says Credit Suisse spirits analyst Kieran McGrath. Whether it’s characters on popular television period dramas such as Mad Men and Boardwalk Empire refocusing attention on Manhattans and Old Fashioneds, or mixologists reviving classic whiskey and bourbon libations in ultra-hip cocktail lounges, whiskey is hot again. The whiskey renaissance is part a larger shift among U.S. consumers toward hard liquor. Spirits have climbed from less than 29 percent of total alcohol sales in 2000 to a record high of nearly 35 percent in 2013. Americans are consuming about 30 percent more spirits than they did two decades ago, while total alcohol consumption has only increased 8 percent, according to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. And according to a recent Gallup poll, more than twice as many 18—29 year olds prefer liquor today than in the mid-90s. According to McGrath, the U.S. recession and the uneven economic recovery that followed play a major role in the shift to hard liquor. “America’s blue-collar and middle-class has been left behind,” he says. “By extension, a core beer-drinking market has been lost.” And whereas cheap liquor offers more bang for the buck than a similarly priced beer, premium whiskeys are much more expensive per milliliter of alcohol than high-quality beer. Thus, McGrath says, spirits can be “defensive in downturns and aggressive in upturns.” But whiskey and bourbon weren’t the first beneficiary of the growing taste for spirits – vodka was. The total value of vodka sales jumped 50.6 percent between 2002 and 2010, according to the Distilled Spirits Council, or DISCUS. But that run is officially over, as whiskey and bourbon accounted for 80 percent of all 2013 sales growth in U.S. spirits. Vodka revenues grew just 1.1 percent in 2013, while gin sales fell 3.8 percent, DISCUS data shows. And it’s not just the cheap stuff that’s selling, McGrath says, pointing to the fact that the number of cases of super-premium bourbon sold rose from 662,000 in 2008 to 1.23 million in 2013. Renewed enthusiasm for brown spirits may also spring from consumers’ growing preferences for alcoholic beverages with a sense of “authenticity and heritage.” Consumers clearly appreciate the authenticity of craft beers, but whiskey’s heritage puts them to shame, says McGrath, “whether it’s Irish immigrants bringing their whiskey traditions with them to America or the romantic tales of bootlegged whiskey and moonshine in the Prohibition era.” ReutersHere comes the good stuff The big winners of late are those companies that specialize in brown spirits, such as Beam Inc., which makes Jim Beam, Maker’s Mark, Knob Creek, and Laphroaig, as well as Kentucky-based Brown Forman, which makes Jack Daniels. On June 4, Brown Forman said that fiscal fourth quarter sales rose 3.1 percent to $389 million, while earnings soared 17 percent to $132 million. And the company’s share price has followed, topping $90 a share after hitting a recent low of $66.50 in June 2013. The industry’s big players have taken note: In April, Japanese spirits company Suntory paid $16 billion to acquire Jim Beam. European liquor powerhouses Diageo and Pernod Ricard, which rely on white spirits for 71 and 81 percent of sales, respectively, aren’t feeling so flush. The stocks of both companies, which traded at a premium to Brown Forman on a price-earnings basis in 2007, now trade at a significant discount. Diageo shares have slid from a July 2013 high of more than £2,100 to £1,919 in early June, while Pernod Ricard shares have dropped from €100 in March 2013 to €89. In the 12 months ending in April, Diageo’s total sales of white spirits fell in all price categories. Sales by volume of the super premium gin Tanqueray fell 2.3 percent, Smirnoff dropped 5.9 percent, and Gordon’s Gin declined 3.2 percent, according to the National Alcohol Beverage Control Association. Likewise, sales of Pernod Ricard’s Absolut vodka fell 4.7 percent over the past 12 months. Some high-end vodka producers, including Bacardi’s Grey Goose, have even begun discounting their products. Neither Diageo nor Pernod Ricard reports quarterly results, but recent data suggest brown spirits are supporting their U.S. business as their white spirits are losing traction. Diageo reported 2 percent lower volume sales in North America in the second half of 2013 whereas sales of Bulleit bourbon and rye grew 60 percent. Company executives have also singled out Johnnie Walker for strong regional growth and on May 29 announced the purchase of a 300-acre property in Shelby County, Ky., where the company plans to build a $115 million, 1.8-million gallon whiskey distillery over the next three years. Pernod Ricard, which reported in April that U.S. sales volumes were up 4 percent for the first nine months of its fiscal year, relied on Jameson Irish whiskey (up 17 percent) to drive that growth. It should come as no surprise, then, that liquor companies are pulling out all the stops to capitalize on the popularity of brown spirits. Some firms are following vodka’s example and offering flavored versions of brown spirits, such as honey-flavored bourbons (Jim Beam) and cinnamon whiskies (Fireball Cinnamon Whiskey, owned by the firm Sazerac). And in April, Diageo launched a new whisky label, Haig’s Club, in conjunction with soccer star David Beckham. Of course, one never knows how long consumers will favor a particular tipple. Better to drink and be merry now. FREE AppDownload
