GT Advanced Technologies was trading above $20 per share not too long ago.  On Friday it closed at $0.81.  The stock was up about 300% in less than two-years and backed by a half billion dollar deal with Apple to provide Sapphire screens to the iPhone and iPad.Then news came out on September 9 that the new scratch resistant sapphire screens would not be a part of iPhone 6 and GT Advanced took a hit...The day before Apple announced the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus with glass screen covers, the CEO of GT Advanced Technologies sold $160,000 worth of his now-struggling company's stock, shares of which subsequently tanked due to the lack of a sapphire cover on the latest iPhones.Weeks later the firm declared bankruptcy and pretty much the entire world was "surprised." In fact, that's the exact word used by Apple itself in a Reuters article. Here's the thing though... That wasn't a surprise after the news on September 9.  But there was a surprise... it's that "no one" saw this coming.It's okay to lose money on an investment, it happens all the time. It's a part of risk taking.  But it's not okay to lose money for lack of knowledge, and I'm afraid that's what happened to some GT Advanced longs. Let me show you four charts that did NOT predict a bankruptcy, but DID predict an ENORMOUS risk in the firm if bad news came out. First we'll glance to the stock price return chart.So... that's what happened... Here's how the risk inherent in GT Advanced was absolutely explicit.RevenueThe firm saw revenue drop by 85% in three years and this information was known in August.Net Income The firm saw earnings collapse from a $200M profit to a $200M loss... and this information was known well before even August.Research &amp; Development over Total Revenue The firm went from spending $0.03 per dollar of revenue of R&amp;D to over $0.62.  GT Advanced was imploding as a going concern, but was making an enormous bet on new R&amp;D.  This information was known well before even August.Here's how revenue and R&amp;D look together in a time series. The risk is pretty obvious.R&amp;D vs. Stock PriceThe stock price was rising, not because people were stupid — no, not at all — it was rising due to the promise of R&amp;D return. The stock moved up as R&amp;D expense increased.There's nothing wrong with investing in this firm. It doesn't make you "wrong" for believing in the R&amp;D and the Apple deal. The equity price appreciated with the promise.But don't tell me that no one knew there was a risk of catastrophic proportions if the iPhone 6 announcement didn't go well. Knowledge is power.  Be Powerful. This article originally appeared at Capital Market Laboratories.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
