SodaStream Shares of Sodastream finished up more than 15%. Following the news, which was first reported by Bloomberg, Pepsi shares gained 0.9%. In its report, Beverage Digest, citing a source, said the Sodastream test using Pepsi products would involve "major SodaStream customers Wal-Mart and Bed Bath &amp; Beyond" in some Florida markets. The test, which will be a 10-week test selling some Pepsi-branded products, will involve "naturally sweetened" brands not sold at retail: "Pepsi Homemade" and "Sierra Mist Homemade," Beverage Digest said.  Beverage Digest reports that the actual flavors will be: Pepsi Homemade, Pepsi Homemade Vanilla, Pepsi Homemade Wild Cherry, Sierra Mist Homemade, Sierra Mist Homemade Peach, and Sierra Mist Homemade Cranberry. Beverage Digest's report also said that Pepsi was looking at "various in-home dispenser opportunities and has partnered with another manufacturer of in-home dispensers, Bevyz, in Europe."  Bevyz is set to launch machines in the US under a partnership with Cuisinart. In an emailed statement to Business Insider, a Pepsi spokesman said: At-home, make-your-own beverages represent an emerging category that has generated interest among some consumers. As we’ve said previously, PepsiCo is exploring multiple technologies in this space. SodaStream is one of several companies we’re talking to about potential ideas for the future. Our discussions with SodaStream are specifically focused on a small-scale, limited-time test scheduled for later this year. We don’t have any additional information to share at this time. And in a regulatory filing, Sodastream said:  Further to press reports that were published today, SodaStream International Ltd. (the “Company”) confirms that as the leader of the at-home, make-your-own beverages, category it has entered into an agreement with PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”) specifically focused on a small-scale, limited time test to make certain of PepsiCo’s brands available for use on the Company’s system. The limited test is scheduled for later this year. Consistent with the Company's practice to date, the Company is also exploring multiple relationships with other leading beverage brands.Exceptionally, the Company would like to stress that this is a limited test and that there are currently no discussions between the Company and PepsiCo concerning any other form of broader business collaboration. Following this report and consistent with past practice, the Company undertakes no obligation to provide any updates and will not comment on rumors or speculation. Sodastream and Pepsi have long been the subject of market and industry rumors, including speculation that Pepsi might one day want to buy Sodastream, but to date nothing has come of that speculation. Here's the chart showing Sodastream's big day on Friday.  Google Finance  FREE AppDownload
