With a nickname like Sin City, Vegas is an obvious choice for revelers looking to do a little more than sit on the couch with a glass of wine and wait for midnight to roll around on New Year's Eve. In Vegas, where the beats of celebrity DJs can be heard until the early morning hours and the premium drinks of high-end bars seem to flow freely (well, actually, quite expensively), you’ll spend your New Year’s Eve like never before. So for those who want to dance on tables, pop champagne, and greet 2015 with a serious hangover -- these New Year’s Eve parties are just for you.  Oyster.com On a regular night, a line starts forming outside of Tryst’s doors at 8:30pm, even though the club doesn’t open until 10pm. Typically filled with good looking twenty-somethings ordering bottle service, Tryst is sure to drawn an equally exclusive crowd for NYE. This year, Lil Jon will be hosting, and the club’s website promises a guaranteed sell-out. Oyster.com Ring in the new year at Hyde, the Bellagio’s upscale bar that overlooks the hotel’s famous fountains. The $150 standard admission fee will grant party-goers free hors d’oeuvres from 9 to 11 p.m., and a hosted bar until midnight. Hyde’s outdoor terrace is the perfect spot for viewing Sin City’s famous NYE fireworks, and those dancing inside will get quite the view, too -- hotel heiress turned DJ, Paris Hilton, will be there, as will other celebrity guests. Oyster.comJewel-toned Vanity, with its sunken dance floor, intimate VIP booths, and outdoor terrace, is undoubtedly one of the best places in Vegas to ring in the new year. This year’s bash, dubbed The Bootleggers Ball, will be hosted by DJ Pauly D (of the Jersey Shore variety). Admission ($125 for women, $150 for men) includes a hosted bar from 9 to 11 p.m., but women will also receive free drinks at casino bars starting at 7 p.m. It may be a man's world, but sometimes it's the ladies who get the perks... Oyster.comSpend your last night of 2014 at Lavo, one of the most exclusive nightclubs in Vegas. DJ Khaled will be hosting the night’s festivities and admission ($50 for women, $75 for men) guarantees a premium open bar from 9 to 11 p.m., “heavily passed hors d’oeuvres” from 9 till midnight, exclusive access to Lavo’s outdoor terrace for the fireworks display, a champagne toast at midnight, and entry to TAO at the neighboring Venetian after midnight. Oyster.com Ready for this one? TAO, an Asian-fusion nightclub located within the Italian-themed Venetian will be throwing a Gatsby-esque,1920s-inspired affair hosted by none other than Snoop Dogg -- so it's naturally entitled "The Snoopadelic Cabaret." Guests are welcome to dress in period attire (pearls and fringe for women, dapper suits for men) and the venue will feature period-influenced entertainment acts. There will be hors d’oeuvres from 9 p.m. till midnight, and a premium open bar from 9 till 11. Admission is $75 for ladies, $125 for gents. Oyster.com The night belongs to the young and trendy at The Cosmopolitan’s posh nightclub, Marquee. Drake will be hosting the evening’s festivities, and the $150-for-men/$100-for-women admission price provides what now seems to be the standard Vegas offerings: a two-hour premium bar, three hours of “heavily passed” hors d’oeuvres, and a champagne toast to ring in the New Year. Oyster.comMacklemore and Ryan Lewis will host the New Year’s Eve bash at 1OAK this year. The club opens at 9 p.m., so be sure to get there early as standard admission (which ranges from $85 to $165) only guarantees an open bar for one hour. Throughout the night, 1OAK will be giving away prizes such as flights, hotel accommodations, and dinner at The Mirage’s STACK Restaurant &amp; Bar. Is Your Hotel On Santa's Naughty Or Nice List Party Like Celebs At These 7 Hotels What You Get In US Cities...For $200/Night  This article originally appeared at oyster.com.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
