REUTERS/Luke MacGregorMohamed A. El-Erian answers five questions for Business Insider ahead of Monday’s stock market open. Is too much attention being devoted to last week’s selloff? Probably, but understandably so. After all it involved the worse weekly selloff for the S&amp;P in two years and the biggest daily drop for the Dow this year. In the process, it erased much of this year’s gains for stock indices around the world, including sending the Dow into negative territory. Also notable is the return of volatility. Last week alone, the cumulative (up and down) daily movements in the Dow exceeded 2,000, or 10% of the value of this major index. Such volatility, especially if it continues, dampens the enthusiasm of those looking to buy on dips. What were the key drivers of the sell-off? First, and foremost, deteriorating global growth prospects on the back of a shockingly disappointing IP number out of Germany (namely a 4% contraction in industrial output) and additional downward revisions in IMF and World Back forecasts. Second, indications of a hardening in divergent policy positions in Europe, including a renewed public rift between German officials and the European Central Bank. Third, an initial level of market prices that is well above that warranted by fundamentals; and that was before indications of weakening economic and policy fundamentals. What are other markets signaling? Two markets are particularly worrisome in this regard: commodities and government bonds. The sustained, sharp and broad-based price decline in commodities is consistent with a significant global economic slowdown. Similarly for the fall in yields on government bonds. Including negative rates for a growing part of the short-term German bond market.   Did anything happen over the weekend to dampen concerns? Yes. Central bankers struck a more dovish tone, stressing that their policies would remain highly accommodative. In doing so, they are looking to, again, attract cash into the markets, bolster asset prices and repress volatility – not because they wish to make investors rich but because, acting essentially without the help of other policymakers, it’s the only approach they believe they have to bolster economic activity. What are the really big economic and policy questions out there and that are of direct relevance to markets? I can think of at least three. First, and related to what happened this weekend, will central banks succeed in restoring market calm and buy more time for the emergence of a more durable and comprehensive policy response? Second, will politicians enable other policymaking entities to step up to their economic responsibilities and take some of the burden off over-stretched central banks? Third, will macro-prudential measures proves sufficient to deal with the negative spillover effects of pockets of excessive risk-taking induced by the prolonged reliance on unconventional monetary policies? FREE AppDownload
