Wikimedia CommonsYes, I’m excited about Michael Lewis’ new book, "Flash Boys," coming out this week but, no, I don’t get worked up about high-frequency trading anymore. I’m going to tell you a quick story and then you won’t either. Once upon a time in the late 1700s there were two types of sons of bitches trading the earliest version of securities in Lower Manhattan: There were the auctioneer sons of bitches and there were the merchant sons of bitches. The auctioneers were all-powerful and totally destructive at times. They presided over trade, which took place outside under a buttonwood tree on Wall Street. What the auctioneers did that was most maddening to the rest of the participants in these protozoic markets was charge exorbitant commissions and allow for securities to trade in a lawless fashion, without regard for fairness of any kind. Meanwhile, the cutthroat speculators were growing to be quite fed up with this arrangement so they did what all would-be conspirators do – they met in secret to plot an overthrow. In March 1792, 24 of these merchant sons of bitches snuck into the Corre’s Hotel, which occupied what is now 68 Wall Street (which has since been absorbed into 40 Wall Street, aka the Trump Building), for their clandestine sit-down. Two months later, they hatched their scheme, signing a document called the Buttonwood Agreement, named for the tree they’d been wheeling and dealing under each day. The accord meant that all 24 signers were bound to trade securities only among one another, to deny entry into their clique to outsiders who’d not been accepted by the membership and to fix commissions on trades at a set amount (.25% of face value for all shares of stock or similar instrument). This banding together made these 24 large-scale merchant sons of bitches into the de facto monopoly that controlled all trade and it sent the other sons of bitches, the auctioneers, out of business. And then a constitution for the exchange was written. And then 73 years later, in 1865, the buttonwood tree came crashing down during a thunderstorm — the first Flash Crash, incidentally. Anyway … The two-dozen sons of bitches and signers of the Buttonwood Agreement had the whole game on smash; they formed the nucleus around which the New York Stock Exchange would eventually coalesce. And once they’d seized control of all securities trading on The Street, chasing out anyone who didn’t want to play by their rules, they ran that s--t like a powdered-wig mafia. If you were on the other side of their trades, even unknowingly, you were done. The bottom line is this: There have always been insiders, unscrupulous dealers, and some participants with unfair advantages over others. HFT is just the latest in a long line of shenanigans and the moment you outlaw it or modify it or babysit it out of existence, there’ll be a new broad-daylight robbery format waiting right behind it. As we see from the events of 222 years ago, the stock market hasn’t become rigged — IT STARTED OUT RIGGED. Get over it. *** Sorry, Michael, didn’t mean to steal your thunder. The book is here: "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt"   FREE AppDownload
