AP ImagesMark CarneyMark Carney’s honeymoon phase across the pond is most certainly over. The “outstanding central banker of his generation,” as Carney was described by Chancellor George Osborne prior to his arrival at the Bank of England, has recently been dogged by (meritless) allegations that he is in cahoots with the chancellor and won’t hike rates until the next election is over in order to boost the ruling party’s chances. Members of the Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee have also become increasingly willing to express their disagreement with the governor, as evidenced by the two dissenting votes cast during its latest decision. In what The Telegraph called a “rebellion at the Bank of England,” Martin Weale and Ian McCafferty think that the central bank should have raised its policy rate in the face of diminishing slack in the labour market to proactively ward off an acceleration in inflation. The most common critique of Carney that has arisen during his tenure atop the Bank of England, however, is his inconsistent messaging. It’s almost as if the governor is having an identity crisis, and isn’t quite sure what kind of bird he is: a dove, or a hawk. “A couple weeks ago, Bank of England chief Mark Carney sent a chill down the spine of global markets when he said rate hikes might come sooner than expected,” wroteBusiness Insider’s Joe Weisenthal in late June. “In comments today, he’s emphasizing that wage growth has been surprisingly muted and that the system still has slack, meaning inflation isn’t a big risk.” When Carney indicated that the Bank of England would be placing more weight on wage growth to determine the level of slack in the economy, Bank of Montreal senior economist Benjamin Reitzes commented on the dovish nature of the move. “It almost seems as if Mr. Carney is picking out the weakest indicator available in order to avoid tightening policy,” he wrote. “We wouldn’t argue with his reasoning, but changing the focus of policy on what seems to be a consistent basis isn’t the best way to maintain or rebuild credibility.” Now, the governor is singing a bit of a different tune. “We have to have the confidence that real wages are going to be growing sustainably [in order to raise rates],” he told the Sunday Times. “We don’t have to wait for the fact of that turn to do so.” You can see why traders would get confused by all this, and it’s not evident what prompts these shifts in rhetoric. But for an out-of-the-box theory on why the governor has been delivering mixed messages, looking to his past is instructive. At the Jackson Hole Conference in 2009, Carney delivered a speech on a topic that has recently been brought back to the forefront when it comes to discussions about monetary policy: just what should central banks be doing to promote financial stability? A portion of his remarks support an unconventional explanation for why the governor seems to shift from hawkish to dovish at each successive public appearance – that perhaps he’s looking for greater short-term volatility in the interest of long-term financial stability. Here’s the relevant excerpt (emphasis added): How central banks communicate can influence the degree to which low, stable, and predictable inflation fosters excess credit growth. It is important that markets understand how a central bank formulates policy, but that does not equate to perfect foresight. Differences in judgment and the fundamental uncertainties surrounding the economic outlook should mean occasional differences in view. These should be particularly marked during turning points in the economic cycle. As the review of liquidity cycles suggests, wider “markets” in expected economic outcomes (which would mean greater short-term volatility) could promote long-term financial stability. “To prevent asset market overheating while keeping rates low, central bankers may have to introduce more volatility into asset markets,” writes Steven Englander, head of G10 currency strategy at Citi, in a note published near the beginning of June. Complacent investors who are supremely confident about what a central bank is doing and where it is heading are incentivized to increase leverage and risk. If this occurs en masse, it poses a threat to financial stability should reality fail to align with what was in the crystal ball. As such, central bankers like Carney might want to mix things up a bit to keep market participants nimble and wary. If one subscribes to the idea that central bankers are playing chess – trying to manufacture volatility to keep market participants on their toes – events like Ben Bernanke setting off the “taper tantrum” and Janet Yellen’s seemingly off-the-cuff “six months” remark look like shrewd, calculated moves. To be sure, this view is not a commonly held one, and there are plenty of competing explanations for why Carney’s messaging has been rather inconsistent. Avery Shenfeld, chief economist at CIBC, thinks that Carney is simply doing his best to show which way the winds inside the Bank of England are blowing. “Part of the challenge is that he’s not the dictator that he could have always chosen to be at the Bank of Canada, because the Bank of England has voting members and the majority rules,” he told us. “This flip-flopping is an effort to not get too far from the consensus view.” “This is a source of frustration for those in the City, not those on High Street,” Shenfeld added. Meanwhile, TD senior economist Michael Dolega believes that manufacturing volatility would not be a prudent course of action for central bankers. “Volatility can serve an important function, preventing the markets from taking on a false sense of security and potentially underpricing risk,” he explained. “However, central banks should not try to artificially create it through unclear messaging.” For monetary policymakers who might be worried about complacency, Dolega offers a suggestion: just be honest about it. “If anything, the messaging should be clear, and if central banks are concerned about mispricing of risk, then that’s exactly what they should telegraph to the markets,” he said. FREE AppDownload
