APA Glock G42, .380 caliber Auto handgun on display at a 2014 trade show in Las Vegas. The founder of one of the world's largest gun companies, Glock Inc., is being sued by his former wife for allegedly engaging in "a multiple-decade, virtually-world-wide, continuing racketeering scheme" cost her $500 million. According to a complaint filed in federal court in Atlanta on Thursday, Helga Glock is suing her ex-husband, Gaston Glock, 13 different companies, and four of his business associates. The complaint alleges the main goals of the defendants' "scheme" were to "siphon, divert, and hide monies and assets away from the view and reach of Ms. Glock." Helga Glock is seeking an amount "an amount equal to three times" the $500 million in damages she said she sustained, her attorneys' fees, and the restoration of her "rightful ownership interest" in the company.  Glock's US operations are headquartered in Smyrna, Georgia. In a phone conversation with Business Insider shortly after the complaint was filed, John Smith, the attorney representing Helga Glock, explained why she filed her suit in Georgia.  "Georgia is really the epicenter of the GLOCK empire. I mean, this is Rome," said Smith. "It's filed here because from here Mrs. Glock believes her former husband and his associates funneled hundreds of millions of dollars away from the Smyrna-based GLOCK."  Glock's legal department did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Business Insider on Thursday. Smith said he has not received a response from any of the defendants and does not know who is representing them.  The complaint says the Glocks, who married in 1958 and divorced in 2011, "co-founded" the gun business in 1963. According to Smith, Helga Glock "continues to have an ownership interest" in the company.  "Because of Defendants’ racketeering scheme, instead of having a  15% interest in 100% of Glock, Inc., Ms. Glock now has a 1% interest in 50% of Glock, Inc.," the complaint says.    A nasty legal battle between the Glocks has been brewing for some time. In March of last year, Helga Glock and her attorneys filed a motion in a federal court in Georgia to compel some of Glock's companies to release documents they hoped would reveal details about his finances. In the course of that lawsuit, Helga Glock provided a sworn affidavit in which she accused him of having an affair with Katrin Tschikof, whom he subsequently married. Helga Glock's complaint filed on Thursday is over 350 pages long and accuses Gaston and the other defendants of "hundreds of violations of the Federal mail fraud, wire fraud, national stolen property, and money laundering statutes." These violations include the alleged use of forged documents, "fraudulent invoicing," "sham royalty/licensing payments," and "phantom shipments and wire transfers" through a complex network of shell companies. In addition to these alleged crimes, the complaint accuses Gaston of treating his immediate family members in a manner reminiscent of "the senseless and self-destructive rage of Shakespeare’s King Lear." The complaint also makes scandalous claims about what Gaston did with the money he allegedly diverted from Helga. It says he "used his personal stash of 'fun money' to cavort with women around the world" and provide lavish gifts for his new wife, including a $15 million show horse. NOW WATCH: How The Secrets Of The Samurai Can Help You Achieve Laser Focus This post was updated at 6:51 p.m. FREE AppDownload
