REUTERS/Heinz-Peter BaderSaudi Arabia's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi. The 54-year-old organization still exists on paper, but it's unclear whether it wields any influence as a cartel above and beyond the desires of one member: Saudi Arabia. BAMLHere's proof that OPEC is no longer unified. Here's what the BAML commodities research group wrote in a note at the end of November about the subject: ...the fact that the some members still have spare productive capacity while others are facing structural declines ahead following years of underinvestment and lack of capital may have further widened the gap in perspective between the various interest groups. Diverging geopolitical interests and ideological rivalries among some members may have done the rest. BAMLOne commodity. Many different breakeven prices. Very few of these countries' interests were served by the November OPEC decision not to rein in production and let the price of oil continue to drop. Meanwhile, the Saudis are sitting back, letting prices fall, and trying to starve out American producers — because they can. That said, it does seem that smaller Gulf states like Kuwait and the UAE are on board with this plan. At BAML earlier today, Blanch noted that in the long term, it benefits Saudi Arabia to attempt to reduce US production, particularly as the world moves toward emissions caps and more energy-efficient technologies. But long-term strategy is a luxury of those who can afford the losses. Alan Beattie makes the point in the FT's beyondbrics blog that the Gulf states tend to have a much lower fiscal breakeven price, meaning their budgets assume lower oil prices and volatility doesn't necessarily affect how the country is run — contrasted with, say, Venezuela. (More on that here.) "Politically secure governments are generally better at managing oil wealth than are shakier regimes, and indeed continue to be stable because of it," Beattie writes. If oil prices remain at current levels, the world will find out just how true this is.      FREE AppDownload
