CNBCJeff Kleintop For 2015, we forecast a year of gains for global stocks, supported primarily by slightly stronger global economic growth. The global economy may be boosted by new stimulus from central banks in Europe and China. It may also get a push from fiscal policy as budgets are loosened. For example, Japan said it would delay its planned 2015 tax increase, China announced new infrastructure projects, and the French and Italian budget battles appear to be over. Some of the largest economies will likely contribute to growth. Japan continues to slowly rebound from recession, and the United States remains a solid source of global demand. In addition, the recent fall in oil prices could have a positive impact on the global economy. If oil prices stay at their current level for the rest of the year, the 25% price decline this year would be equivalent to one percentage point of 2015 global GDP. Stock performance may be accompanied by increased volatility, however, as central bank actions could heighten some market risks. Other possible contributors to volatility include varying levels of growth around the world, flare-ups in geopolitical hot spots, and natural disasters or pandemics that could tip the global economy into a recession. Where will stocks offer investors the best potential return in 2015? While many factors influence the relative performance of U.S. and international stocks, one indicator that has a solid historical track record of signaling when international stocks may outperform U.S. stocks is the "current account." The current account is a measure of trade and investment flows in and out of the U.S. It has typically been in deficit over the past 40 years. That means the U.S. imports more than it exports and that more foreign investment flows into the U.S. than flows out to the rest of the world. The trend in the current account has had significant implications for investors, historically: Importantly, the current account tends to lead relative market performance by about three quarters, providing investors with ample time to adjust their portfolios ahead of any change in the performance trend. While past performance is not a guarantee of future results, the indicator has performed consistently in a variety of economic environments over the past 42 years. The only exception to this was the period in the second half of the 1990s when the U.S. current account deteriorated and yet U.S. stocks—led by technology stocks as the internet bubble inflated—outperformed international stocks. Charles Schwab & Co., Bloomberg data as of 10/24/14. It didn’t pay to invest outside the United States in recent years, as U.S. stocks produced the strongest relative returns while the current account as a percent of GDP improved. What does the current account indicate about relative stock market performance in 2015? The latest data on the U.S. current account shows that it has flattened out after improving sharply in recent years. U.S. petroleum exports are soaring. However, the U.S. trade balance in other goods has been rapidly deteriorating. These two factors have offset each other lately. As a result, the current account could be near a change of direction. The key to that direction in 2015 may be the dollar. The dollar has climbed 10% since the end of the second quarter and rose to a four-year high last week. While oil exports should continue to rise, the key to the direction of the current account is how rapidly the trade deficit in other goods will change. The dollar's recent rise could hurt the non-oil trade balance, since it makes foreign goods cheaper for U.S. buyers and U.S. goods more expensive for foreign buyers. That could pull the current account down, and signal that international stocks may finally begin to outperform U.S. stocks in 2015. The current account data for the third quarter will be released on December 17. I will be watching this closely for signs of a change in direction, but for the time being the current account, relative valuations, and relative growth prospects all suggest U.S. stocks are likely to continue to outperform the broad international benchmarks. I hope this enhanced your understanding of the U.S. current account and what it might mean for international stocks. This article originally appeared at Charles Schwab.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
