This article originally appeared at GQ.com. Check out GQ's How To Index for the best men's style, grooming, and lifestyle tips. If the art world feels like a cold, intimidating, and often very closed place—well, it kinda is. But it’s also a wonderful world to wade into, from the thrill of the hunt to the rush of discovery. And we're here to tell you that it’s not out of reach, no matter how small your budget. This could be your wall one day: GQ1. Eighteenth-century Peruvian painting gifted by his mother; 2. Helmut Newton print; 3. Ocean painting by his business partner, Ariel Ashe; 4. Karl Haendel drawing; 5. Painting from Dan Colen's Trash series; 6. Wax piece by Rashid Johnson.Architectural designer Reinaldo Leandro (pictured above) got in early on several rising artists before their prices went stratospheric. The lesson from Leandro's wall is the mix: Some of the work was a gift, other pieces were investments, and then there's stuff made by friends. The big secret about the art world is that there kinda is no art world. It's more about learning the landscape, honing your aesthetic and making a few connections. Cash flow, thankfully, is secondary. Whether you're looking to buy your first major work (we'll coach you through that next) or just tripping out on an artist's work on Tumblr, all it takes is participation. The best advice is "buy slowly, use wisely." GQ1. Take your time and do your homework. There are bargains out there, often found at charity auctions or from auction houses not located in N.Y.C. or L.A. 2. Don't just accept a dealer's price—check a database like artsalesindex.artinfo.com. See what similar works are going for. 3. Don't buy something because you think you'll flip it. Buy what you like—and buy to keep. Think of your collection as your estate. 4. Don't buy a poster even if it's a Warhol. If you do buy from an edition of prints, buy from a small edition and make sure it's signed. 5. Don't be too hip. It's hard to be on the upside of the curve unless you're an insider. Better to buy something that's gone a bit obscure, even out—think modern, not contemporary. (I remember when pulp art was cheap. Now I'm liking '70s color-field painters.) 1. Go to art fairs Pascal Spengemann, director of Marlborough Chelsea and Broome Street, explains: Fairs are packed with as much art as museums, so the layman can become an insider very quickly. You get to see a lot of work from a lot of different galleries all at once, and the dealers are eager to make sales. Dealers like an educated consumer, but if you're open to learning about the work, they're interested in expanding their clientele. Just look for someone with a badge on and don't be afraid to ask questions. How is something made? How old is the artist? How well-known? You can ask price right away, and it's common for a collector to ask for a 10 percent discount. Once you've found some galleries that feel like kindred spirits, you can follow up and visit them at their actual locations. 2. Browse art books Bill Powers, founder of Half Gallery, says: Think of an artbook collection as your fantasy art collection. I probably have a thousand at home, and it's a nice way to live with a body of work. There are three categories to know: There's the monograph, which is a history of an artist's professional work. There are catalogs for museums (pretty mainstream) and gallery shows (a little more rarefied). And then there are artists' books, which are those small passion projects—like a show in book form. The spirit connection between collecting art and collecting art books is to get a signed art book. Then you have the artist's hand in the work. Isn't that what everyone's looking for? You can even frame a book like a piece of art. I did that with a copy of The Philosophy of Andy Warhol that has the soup-can drawing in it; I rigged it up so it's open to that page. 1. Chris Johanson Matthu PlacekChris Johanson.He makes colorful and almost childlike paintings of people, cities, and solar systems, often with words of wisdom or existential outbursts. Also: sculptures, video, and music. (See his record label, Awesome Vistas.) GQInstallation view from Johanson's MOCA solo show, Within the River of Time Is My Mind.Johanson is a color-drunk traveler barreling across the road of excess. The early stu<U+2260> in the mid- and late '90s depicted the struggles of everyday life in S.F.'s then downtrodden Mission District, where he spent his "artistvoice- finding" years. But his momentum, technically and conceptually, kept him moving onward and up. Now Johanson's initial visual trademark—gritty, gray-toned urban decay—has given way to a more threedimensional POV. His palette has broadened to include not only brighter colors but also a more hopeful worldview. 2. Andrew Kuo Matthu PlacekAndrew Kuo.Kuo makes bright, impressively sized “color chart” paintings and smaller, quieter self-portraits. Hand-screened T-shirts, often incorporating ’90s bands (Superchunk, Bone Thugs-N-Harmony), Budweiser (“There Will Be Bud”), or the NBA (James Harden and Jeremy Lin as Beavis and Butt-head).  Andrew KuoAndrew Kuo's Jeremy Lin #17 (left) and Reasons to Move to LA.Kuo’s recent show You Say Tomato focused on his razor-sharp, opulent color charts (see #3 above). While at first they might seem like purely visual explorations, a closer look reveals they’re actually more like “emotion charts”—each piece is Kuo’s carefully plotted attempt to map his feelings.  We follow along via a key: One color represents the thought “I like the idea of people, but not the idea of spending time with them.” Another corresponds to “My waking life is bookended by two beers.” 3. Wes Lang Matthu Placek/GQWes Lang.Lang was self-taught while working as an art hanger at the Guggenheim. He makes busy, badass paintings and drawings on canvas. He's known for an infamous series of drawings made on hotel stationery while in residence at the Chateau Marmont. Wes LangWes Lang's Blood, Chet and Tears.We think of Lang as a black-denim-clad avatar mining the post-pop American landscape. He gathers iconography, stirs it all up, and brings it to a boil to tell his own cryptic stories.  His cavases are layered, Basquiat-like, with vignettes: skulls wearing Native American headdresses, panhead Harley-Davidsons, buxom pinup models, cigarette-smoking Playboy Bunnies.  There are also textual exhortations—EXPAND, EXPAND, EXPAND and I’LL GET UP AND FLY AWAY—that express the artist’s fanaticism for both the Tao Te Ching and the Grateful Dead. And while the hand skills make the first impression, it’s the text that often holds the pieces together. Framing tips from Cookie Vazquez of C.L.V. Art Services in Manhattan: 1. You need a framer you can trust. Prices and quality vary wildly, and a frame protects your art. For a reference, call another collector or a local gallery. 2. Always get archival, museum-quality frames with UV-blocking Plexiglas. Cheap mats or tape cause damage; glass can shatter and slice up your art. 3. Don’t frame it all. A canvas doesn’t need a frame, and it shouldn’t have Plexi. 4.  Ask to see various options—modern, less modern, period, etc. I can do a simple metal frame with UV Plexi for under a hundred bucks. Or we can go with twelve-karat white-gold leaf. Flickr/bracketing_life1. Online Paddle8.com: Twice-monthly sales feature blue-chip artists (Koons, Hirst); charity auctions host work that's in reach, like a Joe Bradley drawing for $6,600. (His paintings go for ten times that.) Artspace.com: Check out Gregory Crewdson's photos at White Cube from your bed. Artsy.net: Boasts a 50,000-piece collection with prices geared both to first-time buyers and to seasoned collectors. 2. New York Galleries Gagosin: "The Met of galleries." Home Alone: A downtown gallery on Forsyth started by Hanna Liden, Nate Lowman, who dated Mary-Kate Olsen, and Leo Fitzpatrick of Kids and The Wire fame. Half Gallery: On the Upper East Side; has featured artists like Terry Richardson and Lucien Smith. Fulton Ryder: Known for its pulp-fiction-inspired work by a secretive Gagosian artist. Gavin Brown: Has shown the work of young artists Joe Bradley and Spencer Sweeney. Team Gallery: In SoHo; hosted a Ryan McGinley show by having Atlas Sound play a set from the roof. Marlborough: Photography book stores Dashwood and Printed Matter. This article originally appeared at GQ.com.  Copyright 2014. Follow GQ.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
