Do you play recreational tennis or golf? Would you bet your retirement savings you could beat Roger Federer or Tiger Woods? Of course you wouldn't. In most areas of your life, you objectively assess your skill level, and make intelligent decisions about the outcome of your planned activities. Unfortunately, many people abandon any pretense of objectivity when it comes to investing. They are overly confident in their ability to achieve returns that will "beat the market." Such investors are not alone. One 2006 study, "Behaving Badly," by James Montier, surveyed 300 professional mutual fund managers. Nearly 75% of them thought they were above average at their jobs. Very few, if any, believed they were below average. Obviously, only 50% of this group could, by definition, be above average. In reality, the high opinion many of these professional mutual fund managers had of their investing skills was irrational and unwarranted. Another study, "Volume, Volatility, Price and Profit: When All Traders Are Above Average," authored by Terrance Odean and published in The Journal of Finance in 1998, examined what happens in financial markets when investors are overconfident. It found that overconfident investors expend too many resources on information acquisition and trade too much. The study concluded that the pursuit of information deemed necessary to increase returns causes overconfident traders to "fare less well than passive traders." Endowment funds are the top dogs of the investing world. Much has been written about their stunning results. From 2009 through 2011, you were 10 times more likely to see a news story regarding one of the 10 largest educational endowments than you were to read about endowments of any other size, according to October 2012 Vanguard research. The holy grail for many individual investors is to emulate the returns of endowment funds. The disproportionate amount of publicity generated by big-name endowments obscures the fact that the performance of smaller endowments is nothing to brag about when compared with low-cost mutual funds. These endowments still have massive resources at their disposal. They can hire the most sophisticated consultants and analysts. They have access to private equity and other alternative investments. You would think the performance of these funds would be stellar. In the aforementioned Vanguard research, Vanguard analyzed the returns of endowment funds. Its findings were sobering. It found the average large endowment, defined as one with assets in excess of $1 billion, performed extremely well in comparison with broad indexes. However, large endowments represented less than 10% of the assets of all endowments. The remaining 91% of endowments (those with assets under $1 billion) "performed more modestly." This was also true for the most recent five and 10-year periods, when these smaller endowments jumped on the alternative investment bandwagon. Alternative investments were thought by many to be the secret sauce used by the "big boys" to outperform the market. When Vanguard drilled into the details of endowment performance, the results were striking. Over the five, 10 and 25-year periods ended June 30, 2011, average annualized returns of all endowment funds underperformed a simple benchmark index with 60% in stocks and 40% in bonds. The average endowment modestly outperformed this benchmark over 15 and 20-year periods.  The results were even more striking when Vanguard compared the returns of medium and small endowment funds to the returns of a low-cost, active balanced fund. The low-cost balanced fund outperformed small endowments over the five, 10, 15, 20 and 25-year periods measured. It outperformed medium endowments over the five, 20 and 25-year periods. On a risk-adjusted basis, over the past 25 years, low-cost active balance funds consistently outperformed medium and small endowments for all periods studied. If this dismal performance record is the best small and medium-size endowments can do, why do you believe you and your broker can achieve superior results? Flickr / Lee_SalfordTry to stay objective. An objective view of the data leaves little doubt about what investors should do to achieve higher expected returns. According to a September 2011 study, entitled, "The Behavior of Individual Investors," the methodology is simple to understand and even easier to implement. It's to buy and hold well-diversified portfolios, trade infrequently and minimize taxes and other investment costs. Although this is clear in theory, the reality of investor behavior is quite different. The study found investors trade frequently, have "perverse stock selection ability," incur unnecessary costs, sell winners and hold losers, as well as generate unnecessary tax liabilities. Many investors hold poorly diversified portfolios, resulting in levels of unnecessarily high risk. Many are "unduly influenced by media and past experience." The study concludes, "Individual investors who ignore the prescriptive advice to buy and hold low-fee, well-diversified portfolios, generally do so to their detriment."  Whether you call it overconfidence or hubris, the result is the same. These behavioral traits are likely to negatively impact your returns, imperiling your ability to reach your retirement goals. This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
