Amazon just published its annual post-Christmas press release. These are always packed with interesting nuggets. Here are a few things that popped out: Those were some of the highlights. If you want to pick through it yourself, here's the entire release: Amazon’s 20th holiday season brought record growth to the company’s fast, free shipping program Amazon Prime – more than 10 million new members worldwide tried Prime for the first time.Amazon customers also benefited from low prices this season, including more than 25,000 Lightning Deals. “We are excited to welcome more than ten million new members to Amazon Prime this holiday season, who benefited from unlimited Free Two-Day Shipping on their holiday gifts. Prime members can also borrow more than 700,000 books, listen to one million songs and hundreds of playlists, save unlimited photos and watch tens of thousands of movies and TV episodes including the Golden Globe nominated show from Amazon Studios, Transparent,” said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. “We are working hard to make Prime even better and expanding the recently launched Prime Now to additional cities in 2015.” Amazon Prime has come to mean fast, free shipping, free streaming and free reading. This year, Amazon added nearly a dozen new features and benefits to Prime. In addition to Prime Instant Video and the Kindle Owners Lending Library, members now enjoy Prime Music, Prime Photos, Prime Pantry, Amazon Elements, critically-acclaimed and exclusive streaming content, early access to select Lightning Deals, exclusive pricing on select Amazon devices, exclusive pricing on Same-Day Delivery and more. Following the November launch of Prime Photos, members also uploaded nearly one billion photos with free unlimited photo storage inAmazon Cloud Drive. Holiday Fun Facts: Shipping: Amazon Devices &amp; Digital Media: Customer Purchases: Holiday Best Sellers (Amazon.com only): Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
