At first glance, the situation calls to mind the late 1990s. Biotech stocks surged between 1998 and March 2000, at which point they fell sharply and proceeded to grind lower for the next three years. But Thomas Claudio Kaufmann, a pharmaceutical and biotech analyst for Credit Suisse Private Banking, thinks that things won’t play out in 2014 as they did in 2000—and that large-cap biotech stocks still hold considerable potential upside from current levels. Scientific advancement is the most important difference between the two rallies, Kaufmann says. The Human Genome Project began in 1990, and by 1996, scientists had started to identify specific genes linked to Parkinson’s disease and various forms of cancer. Large-scale sequencing got underway in 1999, and the human genome was mapped by 2003. “People thought drugs would be popping up like mushrooms,” Kaufmann says. “But in the beginning, the Human Genome Project actually raised more questions than it answered.” Despite the advancements in sequencing, it still takes 12 to 14 years to develop a new drug, and Kaufmann therefore argues that enthusiasm about deciphering the human genetic code came about a decade too early. It’s now, he argues, that the real payoff is about to begin, and he points to Herceptin, a drug that targets a specific form of breast cancer in which faulty genes direct cells to produce too much of a protein called Her-2, as an example. “This is just the tip of the iceberg,” Kaufmann says. “The drugs coming to market today aren’t just ‘Me-Too’ drugs that are similar to therapies already on the market. These are real game-changers.” Biotechnology-driven drug development has seen such profound advancements over the last 15 years that the largest biotech companies are starting to look more like pharmaceutical companies, and the traditional dividing line has blurred. Fifteen years ago, pharmaceutical companies tended to develop “small-molecule” drugs, while biotech companies developed those based on large molecules or proteins. That’s no longer true. Gilead, one of the largest biotech firms, has very few biotech drugs, and the pharmaceutical giant Roche is the largest biotech manufacturer in the business. Because small-cap biotech plays still carry the risk of outright failure, Kaufmann suggests looking at those large-cap biotech companies that already have blockbuster drugs and are generating heaps of cash. Amgen introduced a dividend in 2011 and completed two share buyback programs worth a combined $7 billion in 2011 and 2012. Gilead announced a $5 billion buyback in March. Kaufmann expects more dividend announcements, share buybacks, and M&amp;A activity in the future, making large biotech firms exactly the kind of cash-rich companies that Credit Suisse’s Private Banking unit suggests offer both downside protection and upside potential in this year’s choppy equities markets. And here’s the rub: despite the multi-year rally, Kaufmann points out that large-cap biotech valuations are still quite reasonable. Using the so-called PEGY ratio – 2014 price/earnings ratios divided by forecasted earnings growth and dividend yield over the next three years ­–  large-cap biotech stocks are trading at just half the level of their pharmaceutical counterparts and just a third of their 1999 levels. FREE AppDownload
