Last night HLF issued their Q1 results that seemed about as gimmicky as it gets. What do I mean by that? Well simple, issue an earnings report for the quarter just ended that beats Wall Street estimates handily, guide the current quarter down and then raise full year eps. The obvious push out in my opinion. Here is the summary: What I also find interesting is that sales growth for HLF is decelerating at a fairly rapid pace for a company that attracts so much attention. In each of the last two years, HLF has grown sales 18% a year, while analysts only expect sales to grow about 8% for the next two years. For those of you who are not following at home, this stock is a battleground between 2 hedge fund titans, Bill Ackman of Pershing Square who is basically most of the short interest between short stock and long puts (about 33% of the float), with Carl Icahn on the other side who is the largest holder with 17 million shares or about 17% of the stock. I don’t pretend to have any insight into either investor’s thinking, but despite Mr. Icahn’s tweet last night expressing his agreement with HLF’s actions to suspend their dividend to buy back more stock, I would be more emboldened if I were on the short side. Great move by #HLF to suspend dividend &amp; buyback shares. $HLF accelerates return to shareholders. Confirms confidence in the future. Again, Mr. Icahn has put a considerable amount of capital behind his belief that HLF’s sales practices are on the up and up, that they sell products that actually work, that the stock is considerably undervalued and that most of all Mr. Ackman is dead wrong and will be carried out on his thesis that the company is a pyramid scheme and that it will be shut down by regulators. He basically outlined his strategy for the HLF investment on his CNBC battle with Bill Ackman last year – he simply wants to squeeze Mr. Ackman until Mr. Ackman is finally forced to cover his short. And my guess is that if and when that happens, Mr. Icahn will be giddily selling his shares to Mr. Ackman at higher prices. However, the news flow over the past 6 months has gotten more negative as the regulatory scrutiny on the company has increased. So Mr. Icahn’s game plan has not exactly worked as planned, though he also knows that Pershing Square owns Jan15 50 puts (the single largest strike of open interest at 67,000 contracts we described here on Jan 16th) that Mr. Icahn would love to expire worthless and thus deplete Mr. Ackman’s coffers. HLF management knows that as well, so the company might know that it’s on thin ice, but if it can keep the stock propped up over the next 9 months, maybe Bill Ackman will finally have to simply take his loss on his options and reconsider his short stock position. Nonetheless, Herbalife has used an awful lot of ammo in the past few months, and the stock is still lower in that period. That might be all the evidence we need that HLF is headed lower, even as management seems more focused on squeezing a short as opposed to mounting a solid defense to increased regulatory scrutiny. The company is becoming increasingly levered in an effort to achieve this final point, and frankly I am surprised that there has not been a bid to take the company private by an investor group given what appears to be the company’s apparent confidence about the viability of their business model. One last point, my trade referred to in first paragraph was a throw away trade, but the trade that I may look to do is a ratio put spread that I detailed back on March 3rd: Name That Trade: HLF – If I Had A Billion Dollars, Stay Tuned. This article originally appeared at Risk Reversal .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
