REUTERS/Athit PerawongmethaA message written on an overpass by pro-democracy protesters at the financial Central district in Hong Kong on Wednesday.Good morning! Here are the 10 stories you need to know about in markets on Thursday. Europe's Latest Stimulus Falls Flat. The European Central Bank lent €130 billion ($162.17 billion) to banks in its latest cheap credit program in an attempt to get Europe's stagnant economy moving again. The TLTRO figure (targeted long-term refinancing operation) is likely to be seen as a disappointment. After pretty poor figures in September, analysts were expecting €175 billion to be extended by Frankfurt. Russia Hikes Rates. The Russian central bank has raised rates to 10.5% from 9.5% in its latest attempt to halt the collapse of the rouble. The currency has been hit by a combination of collapsing oil prices, which the country's economy is heavily dependent on, and Western sanctions over Russia's role in supporting anti-government rebels in Ukraine. Norway Cuts Rates. Norway's central bank just cut its benchmark interest rate to 1.25%. The rate had been at 1.5% since early 2012. Falling oil prices are likely to have a negative effect on the Norwegian economy because it is a massive energy exporter.  UK House Price Growth Has Been Slowing For 6 Months. According to the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, prices grew at their slowest pace in about 18 months in December, Bloomberg reports. German Inflation Got Confirmed At 0.5%. Germany's Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices is up just 0.5% in the year to November, confirmed at the second estimate. That's the lowest level since the recession that came immediately after the financial crisis. Markets Are Sinking. Europe is in the red, with Britain's FTSE down 0.9%, France's CAC 40 down 0.6%, and Germany's DAX down 0.2%. Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.8%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.9%, and China's Shanghai Composite closed down 0.5%.  The Truth About Retail Sales. The US November retail sales report will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate sales climbed by 0.4% in November. Excluding autos and gas, sales are estimated to have increased by 0.5%. "The key question around November retail sales is whether non-energy spending is responding more noticeably to lower gasoline prices," Credit Suisse economists said. "The response so far (from the June peak in gas prices through October) has been relatively muted. But gasoline fell below $3.00 nationwide in mid-November, perhaps a key psychological level. Black Friday reports were negative, but these are often not a good guide to the monthly Census data." Honda And Nissan Are Recalling Half A Million Cars. Honda is recalling 400,000 cars as a precaution against potentially deadly airbags made by Takata Corp., and Nissan is recalling another 152,000 for the same reason. China Is Pushing Banks To Step Up Lending. China has told its banks to issue more loans in the final months of 2014 and has relaxed limits on its loan-to-deposit ratios to help hit a record new lending target as the government steps up efforts to lift flagging economic growth, according to a Reuters exclusive. Lending Club Priced Its Shares At $15. The online loan marketplace, which is about to offer its first public shares, raised its share price to $15, above the initial target range. The move values the company at about $5.4 billion, according to the Financial Times. FREE AppDownload
