Wikimedia CommonsThe garage where Hewlett-Packard was foundedAll of these renowned companies have proven that success truly depends on determination, faith, and hard work. No matter where you start your business or how much money you originally put into it, passion, commitment, and courage are often all you need to make your company a success. But in case you need some objective proof or further convincing, here are some of the biggest companies in the world, all of which were started in their founders' garages. Yes, the world's most famous search engine, "Google" was actually started in a garage. Larry Page and Sergey Brin, graduates from Stanford University, rented a garage from a friend, Susan Wojcicki, in September of 1998. They worked day and night for a number of months and developed what would be known as Google. Their main goal while creating the website was to organize and maintain all kinds of information on a single platform that would be accessible to common people all over the world. Today, Google is the most commonly used search engine in the world and has also launched other useful websites and applications for their customers like Gmail, Google+, and Google Drive. Apple is another insanely popular international brand, but few people actually realize that it was also originated in a garage in California by three young men. Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne developed the first Apple in computer in 1976 in the garage of Steve Jobs' parents house. The Apple I computer was sold as a motherboard to a local store for $500 and shortly thereafter, the team continued on to created the Apple II computer. Their products and company became famous when they got a break from their Macintosh line of products, from which they earned millions of dollars. Now, Apple is leading a technological revolution with their various devices including cutting edge Mac computers, iPhone, iPod, and iPad. Every computer user knows the Microsoft brand. It's the remarkable and famous software that was once created in a small Albuquerque garage by Bill Gates and his friend Paul Allen. Both of them gave more importance to programming language and software operations and worked in collaboration with IBM. They got their first operating system licensed for $80,000. They kept working hard and some years later they developed their most impressive and exceptional operating system called "Windows." Today, Windows is the most widely used software all over the world and about 80% of computers, worldwide, are running this operating system. Amazon.com is a well known website for online shopping that was created in 1994 as an online bookstore by Jeff Bezos. He created the website in his garage in Washington, originally investing nearly $40,000 to enable him to order, sell, and deliver books to 48 different countries. He succeeded in selling his first book in July 1995, and since then he has grown the Amazon empire into the largest online shopping store in world. Walt and Roy Disney created their first films in their uncle's garage in 1923. They started their career by creating "Alice Comedies," which was actually a part of the original Alice in Wonderland animation series. Disney faced a lot of hardships in the journey towards success and was only accepted by investors after enduring plenty of struggle and strife. Now, Disney one of the most popular and highest earning media houses and franchises in the world and is the leading name in producing cartoons, children movies, and animated movies. Two friends, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, founded HP in Packard's garage in 1939 with an initial investment of only $538. The product that eventually boosted their career was an audio oscillator (HP200A), which was sold to Walt Disney to improve their sound system for the movie, Fantasia. Walt Disney bought eight oscillators and gave them the biggest break of their life. Today, the Packard's garage in Palo Alto is famous as the birthplace of HP and Silicon Valley. Since its inception, HP has developed into a powerful and active company that is developing various computers, laptops, and other computer-centric accessories with advanced technologies. All of these companies started with little investment capital and a small workspace, but their hard work and unwavering dedication lead them to huge success. With same type of passion and determination, you too could be the founder of the next $25b+ enterprise. FREE AppDownload
