Mark Thiessen/APA tug boat is seen pulling an Alyeska Pipeline barge through the port of Valdez in an oil response drill in Valdez, Alaska.If Barack Obama has to spend his final two years in office using his veto as often as his golf clubs, he will curse Alaska's primary voters. On August 19th Republicans picked Dan Sullivan to run for the US Senate, a safer choice than Joe Miller, who wants to do to government what lumberjacks do to trees.  Mr Miller's unsuccessful Senate campaign in 2010 tested the limits of Alaska's appetite for small-government populism, a cause that was not helped when his security team inadvertently handcuffed a reporter. Fearing a repeat this year, the Republican National Committee and some munificent donors got behind Mr Sullivan instead. For the same reasons, Democrats spent close to $4m trying to put Republican primary voters off him. It did not work. As in all the other competitive GOP Senate primaries this year, Republican voters took a pragmatic turn and picked the candidate with the best chance of winning in November. Paddy Power, a bookmaker, gives the Republicans a 73% chance of capturing the Senate (see chart).EconomistMr Sullivan looks like a strong candidate: he has served as Alaska's attorney-general and natural resources commissioner and as a trade negotiator under George W. Bush. He faces Mark Begich, a Democrat who won only narrowly in 2008, even though his opponent, the late Ted Stevens, spent much of the campaign on trial for corruption. (Republicans are still furious that this trial probably tipped the result. Stevens was found guilty just before the election; the verdict was later struck down because rogue prosecutors had suppressed exculpatory evidence.) On election night the Begich and Sullivan campaigns celebrated in rival pizza restaurants a block apart. Mr Begich told his supporters he was running to save Medicare, to protect the rights of women and to boost the minimum wage. Mr Sullivan was less talkative, though a spokesman said he would campaign on preventing the Environmental Protection Agency from stifling economic development. In a state that is deep red in presidential elections, and in a tough year for Democrats nationally, this match-up ought to favour the GOP. Yet in Alaska, where the highest federal spending per person coexists with a suspicion of Washington's interference, the obvious thing does not always happen. Michael Dinneen/APBallot Measure 1 supporters Nick Moe, left and T.J. Presley lead others in cheers as early returns showed a narrow lead for repealing Senate Bill 21 in downtown Anchorage, Alaska on Tuesday, Aug. 19, 2014.Mr Sullivan is a newcomer to electoral politics. Mr Begich is a better campaigner and benefits from his family's long political history in the state. His father was a member of the House of Representatives who died in office when a plane carrying him disappeared somewhere between Anchorage, the main commercial city, and Juneau, the capital. More importantly, Mr Begich is a pro-gun, pro-drilling sort of Democrat, the kind of political hybrid that Alaskans like. The state's other senator, Lisa Murkowski, is a rare pro-choice Republican and one of the few senators willing to buck her party. Alaskans' love of combinations that would taste odd in the lower 48, as they call the rest of continental America, was also brought out by a ballot measure on taxing oil companies. Hydrocarbons provide the state with 90% of its annual budget. The University of Alaska, Anchorage estimates that on average in 2010 a family of four gained $22,000 of benefits from Alaskan oil, in the form of tax relief, dividends from a fund that doles out petrodollars and more generous public services. This dependence goes along with some resentment of oil firms' influence on politics. US Coast Guard/ReutersThe conical drilling unit Kulluk sits grounded 40 miles (64 kms) southwest of Kodiak City, Alaska. The state's revenues from oil, which track the price of crude, have remained buoyant but oil production has declined steadily since its peak in 1988. This has generated a long-running argument about whether the likes of ExxonMobil and BP should be taxed to squeeze as much revenue as possible from a dwindling asset or more lightly so as to encourage exploration that might boost production. In 2007 the squeezers won when a proposal to increase taxes on oil firms was championed and signed by the then governor, Sarah Palin (pictured). This was later replaced with a tax rate that did not change with the oil price, a formula that oil firms prefer. The ballot measure, which would have brought back the old law, was narrowly defeated, though not before Mrs Palin found herself on the same side as the state's most progressive Democrats. The fight was expensive: the oil companies spent $14m campaigning to persuade a population smaller than that of San Francisco to keep the law as it is. Reporters spotted buses laid on by the firms to get workers to the polling booths. The industry's opponents spent only $500,000 but lost by just 7,000 votes. This is unlikely to settle the question: Alaska has made 19 substantial changes to the way oil production is taxed since 1973, says Gunnar Knapp of the University of Alaska, Anchorage. But the closeness of the campaign suggests that the Senate seat will be harder for Republicans to win than their strategists realise. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
