Thomson ReutersA price sign at a Dollar General store in Arvada, Colorado(Reuters) - Dollar General Corp &lt;dg.n&gt; questioned whether Family Dollar Stores Inc &lt;fdo.n&gt; Chief Executive Howard Levine was being driven by self-interest in his support of a proposed takeover of his company by Dollar Tree Inc &lt;dltr.o&gt;. Dollar General, which has made its own offer to buy Family Dollar, also alleged it had been led astray by Levine in talks on a potential buyout, notably during a meeting on June 19. "At no time during this meeting did Mr. Levine indicate that there was a process, that there was any urgency to act or that there were discussions with another potential buyer," said Dollar General Chief Executive Rick Dreiling in a letter to Family Dollar's board on Wednesday. "Had we left the meeting with the belief that a sale of Family Dollar was imminent, we assure you that our course of action would have been different." Dollar General offered to buy Family Dollar Stores for $8.95 billion on Monday, trumping the agreed deal with Dollar Tree that was announced on July 28. Levine will be the chief executive of the combined Family Dollar-Dollar Tree. He would lose his job to Dreiling if the deal with Dollar General goes through. Dollar General said its offer was better for Family Dollar's shareholders than the deal offered by Dollar Tree, "although perhaps not for Mr. Levine personally." Dollar stores are popular with low- and middle-income U.S. consumers in a weak economy but are facing increasing competition from big-box retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc &lt;wmt.n&gt;, putting pressure on them to merge. The U.S. market for dollar stores grew 45.7 percent to $48.2 billion between 2008 and 2013 and is expected to grow 18 percent in the next five years, according to Euromonitor International. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn has also questioned whether Levine's future role at Dollar Tree could have influenced the decision to go ahead with the Dollar Tree deal. Icahn, who took a 9.4 percent stake in Family Dollar in June, has pushed the company to sell itself to Dollar General. Family Dollar said on Monday it was reviewing Dollar General's offer, but had not changed its recommendation in support of a merger with Dollar Tree. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane and Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier and Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
