Wikimedia CommonsTunguskaToday is the 106th anniversary of a historic explosion that still has no clear explanation. It happened in Tunguska, a remote forest area in the middle of Siberia. The blast had the power of 15 megatons of TNT, roughly a thousand times that of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima Japan.  The event was so powerful that it was felt and heard a thousand miles away. Locals believed the blast was supernatural, caused by a god that was punishing people for their wickedness. Scientists, on the other hand, believed it was a meteor. Here's Where It Gets Weird 20 years passed before the first Russian scientists went to the site to investigate. If it was a meteor, there would be a crater and meteorite fragments. However, there was no crater. And there were no fragments. In fact, at the epicenter of the explosion was a grove of untouched, fully grown trees.  Surrounding that tiny grove was around 800 square miles of leveled trees. The blast had the hallmarks of an atomic bomb-like explosion.  However, no scientific progress had been made in the area of nuclear weapons until the 1930s, more than two decades after the event. Two Theories Scientists believe that a football field-sized, solid ice chunk of a comet entered the earth atmosphere.  When it encountered earth's intense atmospheric pressure, it immediately exploded miles above the forest.  Because it was made of ice, it left no extraterrestrial evidence. Others believe it was caused by something much smaller: a nuclear-powered alien spaceship that crashed into the earth. A hundred years later, neither side seems to have fully convinced the other camp. But in today's Cashin's Comments, UBS's Art Cashin pointed to a problem with the scientists' theory: But science seems to miss a key point at the time.  There were lots of astronomers and telescopes.  They were busy finding new planets, like Pluto.  Or they were plotting new comet paths and the like.  If they were all so smart, how did all these clever astronomers miss something so large headed for the earth. Mystery, unsolved. SEE ALSO: Business Insider's Brand New Science Vertical &gt; FREE AppDownload
