The Department of Justice is conducting a criminal probe on JPMorgan Chase's foreign exchange trading. The bank gave notice of this investigation in a government filing released Monday. Here's what it says: DOJ is conducting acriminal investigation, and various regulatory and civil enforcement authorities, including US banking regulators, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), the UK Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) and other foreign government authorities, are conducting civil investigations, regarding the Firm’s foreign exchange ("FX") trading business. These investigations are focused on the Firm's spot FX trading activities as well as controls applicable to those activities. The Firm continues to cooperate with these investigations and is currently engaged in discussions with DOJ, and various regulatory and civil enforcement authorities, about resolving their respective investigations with respect to the Firm. There is no assurance that such discussions will result in settlements. Since November 2013, a number of class actions have been filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against a number of foreign exchange dealers, including the Firm, foralleged violations of federal and state antitrust laws and unjust enrichment based on an alleged conspiracy to manipulate foreign exchange rates reported on the WM/Reuters service. In March 2014,plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended class action. Elsewhere in the filing the bank disclosed that over the past few months there had been a heightened willingness among regulators to bring criminal charges against banks in general. It said that these investigations had "significant collateral consequences" to banks, including losing customers or getting banned from being able to sell certain products. They're not great for stock prices either. JPMorgan also disclosed that its estimated losses resulting from legal proceedings could total between $0 and $5.9 billion as of last Sept. 20. However, in certain cases the firm acknowledges that it can't estimate how much it could lose. FREE AppDownload
