Reuters/ Brendan McDermidMartoma pictured with his wife, RosemaryA jury in Manhattan federal court has found former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma guilty of insider trading. Martoma was found guilty on all three counts (two securities fraud, one conspiracy). He faces up to 45 years in prison for all of those counts combined. Today's verdict also gives U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara a track record of 79-0 for insider trading convictions. "As the jury unanimously found, Mathew Martoma cultivated and purchased the confidence of doctors with secret knowledge of an experimental Alzheimer's drug, and used it to engage in illegal insider trading. Martoma bought the answer sheet before the exam — more than once — netting a quarter billion dollars in profits and losses avoided for SAC, as well as a $9 million bonus for him. In the short run, cheating may have been profitable for Martoma, but in the end, it made him a convicted felon, and likely will result in the forfeiture of his illegal windfall and the loss of his liberty. Mathew Martoma becomes the 79th person convicted of insider trading after trial or by guilty plea in this District in the last four years," Bharara said in a statement. In the meantime, the judge said Martoma can remain free on bail before his sentencing. In November 2012, Martoma — who worked at SAC subsidiary CR Intrinsic Investors — was charged in what the DOJ says is "the most lucrative" insider trading scheme in history. Prosecutors said that Martoma used negative confidential drug trial info in pharmaceutical companies Elan Corporation and Wyeth between summer 2006 and mid-July 2008. The fund was then able to exit those positions and short those stocks avoiding losses of $276 million.  SAC Capital, Stamford, Conn.-based hedge fund run by Steve Cohen, was criminally indicted last summer on insider trading charges. Federal prosecutors charged the fund "with criminal responsibility for insider trading offenses committed by numerous employees and made possible by institutional practices that encouraged the widespread solicitation and use of illegal inside information." In November, SAC pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine.  The fund is currently in the process of finalizing its new corporate structure and picking a new name. SAC Capital will no longer manage outside capital and will operate as a family office fund. FREE AppDownload
