Robert Hensley/FlickrThe American economy is being reshaped along the booming industries of technology and energy, according to new rankings of America’s Best Performing Cities by the Milken Institute. In the 2013 rankings, thirteen cities defined by Milken as tech hubs made it into the top 25, while nine could attribute their impressive growth to the energy industry, notably the shale and natural gas renaissance.  Milken's ranking is based on data from both long- and short-term growth in jobs, wages, salaries, and technological output. The city&rsquo;s Business Incentive Fund makes it an attractive place for companies like Southwest Airlines (which just opened a new pilot and flight attendant base) and SCL Health Systems (which moved its headquarters to Denver). The Fund&rsquo;s efforts will result in over 1,600 jobs and $6 in direct fiscal benefit over the next five years. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Medical isn&rsquo;t the only thing driving development. San Antonio is also home to the largest oil and gas development in the world in the Eagle Ford Shale. Record drilling levels and high-yield wells are pumping new jobs into energy and related sectors. The city was ninth&nbsp;in job growth over the last five years. A nationwide restructuring of military bases could provide lead to many new jobs. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; The state is helping fuel growth as well, as it agreed to provide incentives for upfront expansion costs for Boeing&rsquo;s manufacturing complex. That would create additional jobs, putting the total at 8,000. The state is also updating and improving the port&rsquo;s infrastructure so that it can accommodate larger container ships. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Expect growth in clean tech, medical devices, aerospace, and health care over the coming years. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Job growth is the seventh&nbsp;strongest in the country over the last five years, largely because Houston&rsquo;s energy infrastructure is only getting more developed. Multiple companies are building export terminals, fractionaters, and ethane crackers. Expect a huge increase in engineering and construction jobs as a result. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Look for Dallas&rsquo;s job growth to get even stronger as American Airlines, Southwest Airlines, and Lockheed Martin look to expand their presence. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Seattle is not a one trick pony either. The city ranks fifth&nbsp;in tech industry concentration with both Amazon and Google breaking ground on massive new campuses. The expansion of the workforce has also increased the demand for housing, rising property values, and restoring construction jobs. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; The Utah Science Technology and Research Initiative (or USTAR), founded by the University of Utah, has become a leader in technology-based development. The healthy growth has created a strong recovery in housing and commercial construction. Outdoor tourism has continued to expand as well, bringing in jobs in leisure and hospitality. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; With a powerful ecosystem of startups, established companies, universities, and investors, San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara is able to maintain its tech dominance. The talent pool in the area is deep and ultimately that&rsquo;s what keeps attracting companies. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; The city has a thriving tech sector, anchored by Brigham Young University and software company Novell. Provo is also one of three U.S. cities with Google Fiber, the company&rsquo;s superfast fiber optic service, which will continue to make Provo an attractive place for tech companies. Add in the new data storage center being built by the National Security Agency and you have a recipe for strong job growth. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; The city is extremely business-friendly with a low tax, low regulation environment that makes it attractive to out-of-state firms. All of the tech hustle and bustle has led to an influx of young professionals, which has led to a boom in construction.&nbsp; Austin looks to maintain its high-flying output over the next five years as it focuses on clean technology, data centers, digital media, biosciences, and other industries. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; FREE AppDownload
