Wikimedia CommonsVespasian Dupondius, coins of Scotland.In what can be described only as a surprising evolution of public opinion, the odds that Scotland will vote for independence from the United Kingdom on Thursday are starting to look serious. In a recent YouGov poll, pro-independence (“Yes”) voters outnumbered voters who prefer to keep the 307-year-old union intact, 51 percent to 49 percent. Other polls still show the “No” camp in the lead, but only by an average of 4 percentage points. Factor in the margin of error, and the vote looks too close to call. If the “ayes” have it, the referendum would be the beginning of a very complicated period for a newly independent Scottish state. Starting with the likelihood of destabilizing capital outflows. The question of what currency to use would undoubtedly be the new nation’s most pressing problem. Two possibilities already seem out of the question. The first, which would be the simplest for Scotland, would be to continue using the pound and remain subject to the Bank of England’s monetary policy. But British officials have categorically ruled out such a currency union. The country could also adopt the euro, but the independence movement has pooh-poohed the idea. That leaves three choices. First, Scotland could use the pound without the Bank of England backstop, as Panama does with the dollar and Monaco with the euro. Second, it could create a new currency and peg it to the British pound. Or third, it could create a new currency and allow it to float. There are major problems with all three solutions, according to Neville Hill, Credit Suisse’s Co-Head of Global Strategy &amp; Fixed Income. Consider the first choice. Countries that adopt another currency without central bank support require stable, highly capitalized banking systems to make up for the fact that they can’t create liquidity. Scotland’s banks hardly fit that description — the largest of them, the Royal Bank of Scotland, nearly collapsed in the financial crisis, and the British government still owns 81 percent of it. And the second: If Scotland adopted a peg, any central bank it created would struggle to both keep the currency stable and serve as a convincing backstop to Scottish banks, whose balance sheets would be worth an enormous 1,200 percent of GDP. Finally, a free float would most likely see huge capital outflows from Scotland to England. No matter what currency arrangement Scotland might choose, Hill says, “unmixing a currency union is like taking milk out of coffee.” Already, Lloyd’s and the Royal Bank of Scotland, the two largest Scottish banks, have said they will relocate to England if the referendum passes, which would devastate the local economy. Seven percent of Scots work in the financial sector and affiliated service industries, which in turn comprise 13 percent of GDP. But Scotland’s largest banks don’t rely as heavily on the Scottish people as the Scots do on them. For example, between 80 and 90 percent of the mortgages Scottish banks make go to non-Scottish households. Given the absence of a lender of last resort credible enough to stand up a financial sector the size of Scotland’s, banks would almost certainly face higher funding costs in the wake of a split, and would therefore be at a disadvantage relative to their British peers. The situation would resemble that of peripheral banks during the worst part of the European debt crisis, when it looked as though one or more peripheral countries would leave the euro. Depositors fled, funding costs skyrocketed, and sovereign bond yields went through the roof, largely out of concern about the stability of the financial system. The British pound has dropped some 3 percent against the dollar in the wake of the new polls. Michael O’Sullivan, Credit Suisse’s Chief Investment Officer for the UK, Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa in the Private Banking and Wealth Management Division, says he expects volatility to continue until the referendum, at which point it either subsides (in the event of a “no” vote) or gets worse (in the event of a “yes”). Even if Scottish voters choose to stay in the union, “breaking up may become a recurring theme,” says O’Sullivan, similar to that of Quebec. Supporters may feel encouraged to try again in a few years, or the struggle for independence could color the debate on the UK’s membership of the EU, and possibly prompt an early vote on EU membership. Whether Scots vote yes or no this week, the secession genie is out of the bottle. FREE AppDownload
