Nothing says exceptional like America. And through years of historical precedent nothing saying you love your country by decking yourself out in all assortments of red, white and blue. There is, of course, the option of wearing the colors on different items of clothing (think navy blazer, white shirt and red tie). And then there is the option of wearing threads that were specifically created to remind the rest of the world just how exceptional America is. Which in the unfortunate case you forgot about that small scientific fact, I ask that you take a few minutes to listen to one of the finest speeches in the history of mankind.  Whichever method you favor one thing is for certain, showing your love for America has never, and will never, go out of fashion.  So to get you started on your quest to display your beloved country’s colors here are a few of the better items out there… Although we had a tough loss against Germany, I expect us to topple Belgium.  Oh, and Graham Zusi looks like me, or should I say I look like him? AP Photo Nike – USA World Cup jersey ($89.99) Speaking of Germany…  Rowdy Gentleman – Back To Back World War Champs t-shirt ($28)   Because at some point you may have to don a tie during your celebrations of America and this is the most American of American ties.  High Cotton – Starts &amp; Stripes bow tie ($50)   The pinnacle of croakie-esque exceptionalism.  Tucker Blair – American flag sunglasses strap ($45)   Because you need a belt to match your sunglasses strap, obviously.    Tucker Blair – American flag needlepoint belt ($115)   Because at some point you will be in or near one or more bodies of water.  Preferably while on that heavenly little island…  ACK Surf – ACK Americans board shorts ($45)   Because when your boots hit the ground there should be no confusion what team you’re playing for.  Sperry Top Sider – American Flag Day boat shoe ($95)   Because there is nothing your Jack will taste better out of.  Smathers &amp; Branson – American flag needlepoint flask ($65)   Because you need to remind the rest of the world what big stick diplomacy is all about.  Chubbies – ‘Mericas ($59.50)   Because you need to make everyone jealous of how exceptionally American your sunglasses are. Image Credit: Fine Young Gentleman Oakley – Old Glory Frogskins (I have an extra pair – email for inquiries)   Because you’ll put something on her wrist, not her finger.  Kiel James Patrick – The American Legacy ($38.00)   Because you want the city streets to know that the man wearing the suit loves America.  Indochino – Stars &amp; Stripes suit lining ($429-749)   Because you need something American to carry all of your other America gear in.  Hudson Sutler – Yorktown Weekender Duffel ($120) -JLJ   Note: All images from company websites/product pages linked to unless otherwise noted.  FYGblog received no compensation from any brand featured in exchange for placement on list. Related posts:   FREE AppDownload
