The puzzling part relates to both the huge shortfall relative to expectations and, more importantly, the inconsistencies with other recent economic data releases. At just 74,000, December monthly job creation came in at its lowest level since January 2011. Even after adjusting for the upward revision (38,000) in the November estimate, the total job change is just half of consensus expectations of some 200,000. This reported shortfall in job creation runs counter to quite a wide range of recent data releases – all of which speak to a steadily strengthening economy. The worrisome part speaks to some of the other numbers in this morning’s report.  For those employed, earning growth was worrisomely stagnant. At 37.7%, long-term joblessness continues to account for an alarmingly high portion of the reported unemployed. Meanwhile, labor participation fell to its lowest level since February 1978, accounting for two-third of the decline in the unemployment rate to 6.7%. It will take time and lots of more detailed analysis to sort out the exact mix of puzzlement and anxiety. Indeed, unusual weather is likely to play an important role in this analysis. Pending such analysis, we should be careful in allowing today’s employment report, as shocking as it may seem, to materially alter views of the economy and policy. In addition to weather effects, economists and statisticians will tell you that the monthly job numbers are normally subject to significant estimation errors, and for good reasons. Moreover, this snapshot of the labor market is only one part of a much bigger and complex economic picture. So, putting all this together, today’s report does not change our view of a gradually improving U.S. economy in 2014 (the good news), but one that still fails to attain escape velocity during the course of this year (the less good news). It also does not alter our expectation that the Fed will continue to taper its purchases of securities throughout this year, and will likely be out of the QE business by the end of the year – all this while maintaining floored interest rates for longer, strengthening  forward policy guidance, and evolving its use of unemployment and inflation thresholds. FREE AppDownload
