Thomson ReutersWayfair co-chairman and co-founder Conine rings a ceremonial bell in front of fellow co-chairman and co-founder Shah to mark the company's IPO on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Wayfair Inc's  shares rose as much as 27 percent in their market debut on Thursday, valuing the online home furnishings retailer at about $3.06 billion. The company's debut comes after the blockbuster listing of Chinese e-commerce juggernaut Alibaba Group Holding Ltd  in New York and the strong debut of Europe's largest online fashion retailer Zalando SE  in Frankfurt. Boston-based Wayfair operates websites such as jossandmain.com, dwellstudio.com and birchlane.com, offering more than 7 million products under its own brands. The U.S. home goods market is expected to grow to $297 billion by 2023 from about $233 billion last year, Wayfair said in a regulatory filing. Online retailers accounted for about 7 percent of this, the company said. Wayfair competes mainly with Williams-Sonoma Inc , the operator of potterybarn.com and PBteen.com. It also competes with brick and mortar retailers such as Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Inc , Lowe's Cos Inc  and Target Corp  as well as online sellers including Amazon.com Inc  and eBay Inc . Wayfair's offering of 11 million class A common shares raised about $319 million. The company sold 10.5 million shares in the offering, which was priced at $29 per share, above the expected range of $25-$28. Wayfair, previously called CSN Stores LLC, was founded in 2002 as an online seller of furniture. At the time, the company retailed its items through hundreds of product-specific websites including bedroomfurniture.com and allbarstools.com. In 2011, it consolidated its operations and changed its name. Private equity firm Great Hill Partners holds a 11.04 percent stake in Wayfair, with private equity firms Battery Ventures and HarbourVest Partners being its other shareholders. Wayfair's revenue rose 52 percent to $915.8 million in 2013. The company's net loss narrowed to $15.5 million from about $21 million a year earlier. The company's shares were up 22.9 percent at $35.65 in late morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock opened at $36 and hit a high of $37. Goldman Sachs &amp; Co, BofA Merrill Lynch and Citigroup are the lead underwriters for the offering.  (Reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
