Why don't I fight with people on Twitter? appeared as a question on Quora. Below we are republishing an answer from Josh Brown, CEO of Ritholtz Wealth Management and blogger at The Reformed Broker. I don't fight back when people insult me on Twitter (or anywhere else online, for that matter). I've been asked why many times over the years, because there are zero examples of me having flame wars or tweet fights anywhere. That's surprising to people given how long I've been around and how many people I interact with online. There are several reasons I don't ever fight back: 1. It would only make sense for me to spend time and energy fighting with a stranger on the internet if I cared what they thought or had a desire to change their opinion. I don't. 2. Whenever I see two other people going at it on Twitter, my immediate reaction is a cringe. I feel embarrassed for them and I certainly wouldn't want to come off that way myself. 3. Supposedly, Plato once said, "Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle."I don't know if he ever actually said that, but I absolutely agree with it, no matter where the saying came from. The world can be hard enough on people without me adding extra stress to anyone else's life. How dare we make someone's life tougher than it already is? Even if they throw the first punch, I don't want to cause pain. 4. I'm playing a much bigger game than maybe some people realize. Winning a battle that doesn't get me to where I'm going would be a hollow victory — and to win it in an ugly way could actually set me back. I don't know of many successful people who regularly give in to their initial impulses. The term discipline has been defined as forgoing the thing you want now for the thing you want most. That makes sense to me. 5. I believe in Karma, or at least in the concept. I've seen so many people get what they deserve and pay the price for lashing out, being nasty or attacking others. It's like driving slowly down the highway past a hundred car wrecks along the side of the road. 6. I learned a long time ago that my wit isn't a knife or a gun — it is an atomic bomb. One doesn't detonate a bomb lightly. When I was younger and less in control of myself, I said some things back to people that could never be forgotten. I still feel bad about it years later. Sometimes, when I'm insulted now, I'll craft the response in my mind, turning it over for an hour or two until I know it could rip the skin from their bones. And then I'll abstain from using it, because I realize that it will level a city block in the person's psyche and totally shatter the person. That would make me feel even worse. I've gotten quite good at letting it go. 7. I hate bullies. I'm raising my children to stand up for people, not to tear them down. When I see examples of bullying I feel a revulsion in the pit of my stomach, it's always been that way. I would never want to be thought of as someone who bullies others or uses whatever advantages I may have to hurt someone else. 8. If someone deliberately offends me online more than once, and I know who they are in real life, they get dealt with where it counts — offline. I said I'm a good person, but that doesn't mean I'm a victim. In my business, it's better to work with me than against me. Like anyone else, I'm a person with feelings and emotions and I can be hurt. Choosing not to turn around and inflict more hurt in response has helped me a great deal, even if it didn't always feel good at the time. Muting, unfollowing, and blocking are three very valuable tools, and I will always use them before going negative myself. "There is no such thing as defeat in non-violence." — Cesar Chavez Quora is the best answer to any question. Ask a question, get a great answer. Learn from experts and get insider knowledge. You can follow Quora on Twitter, Facebook, and Google+. FREE AppDownload
