Margot Robbie is telling a story about the time she had to get from Croatia to New York in less than 48 hours for a last-minute audition with Will Smith. The 23-year-old Australian actress was backpacking around Europe when she got the call. The previous day, she had been cave-diving in the Adriatic Sea, and had spent the night at a beach club, Carpe Diem, on the island of Hvar. As she walked back to her hostel at around 6am, barefoot and wet from an early-morning swim, her agent rang and told her to get to the port and take the first catamaran to the mainland. She had a seat on a flight from Split to JFK with a six-hour stopover in Paris: if she made the boat, she would make the plane, and would be in New York with a couple of hours to spare. Robbie describes the journey with wide eyes and big gestures, teasing out the seat-of-her-pants lunacy of it. She changed into her pajamas for the flight, she says, only for the airline to lose her luggage, so she made a pit-stop at Topshop on Broadway, frantically grabbing outfits off the rails and getting changed in the taxi as it screeched towards the unmissable meeting. After a run of close shaves and near misses, her story’s ending almost feels anticlimactic. “Then I went to the audition and I got the part,” she says. The release of the Will Smith film is still some way off; for now, she’s talking about the Leonardo DiCaprio and Martin Scorsese one. In The Wolf of Wall Street, Robbie stars as Naomi Lapaglia, the trophy wife of DiCaprio’s monstrous stock-market fraudster, Jordan Belfort . Robbie is a graduate of Neighbours, and worked on the soap opera for two-and-a-half years before moving to Hollywood with a very specific game plan. The Wolf of Wall Street is its successful outcome – or, at least, the start of it. I meet her in a suite in Claridge’s, in central London: she is sitting on the opposite side of a glass coffee table, in a knee-length navy blue power-dress with padded shoulders, dressed for business. She describes working on the film as “a sink-or-swim scenario”, not unlike (and this is how we get on to the Croatia story) travelling alone in a foreign country. “It’s like if you’re stuck in a place you don’t know, and you’ve got no money, you just have to figure it out,” she explains. “If you don’t, you’re going to get robbed and will have to sleep on the street.” It was all she could do, she says, to keep up. “Once you’re on set, nobody is going to turn around and say, ‘Oh, do you need help?’ They won’t wait for you and they don’t need you. If you don’t put yourself in the scene, you won’t be in the scene. And that pressure brought my acting to a level it had never been at before.” Pressure, you suspect, is something that Robbie thrives on: her role in The Wolf of Wall Street is a tough one, especially for a young actress at the start of her career. She admits that the nude scenes, in particular, gave her pause before accepting the role. “Although my manager told me, ‘If there’s ever going to be a time for nudity, this is the director you do it with,’” she says. In the end, she felt the opportunity was too good to pass on. And while it’s a well-worn line, the sex in The Wolf of Wall Street, like the violence and drug-taking, does feel artistically justified – not despite the glamorous way in which it’s portrayed, but because of it. “If Marty had made Jordan’s lifestyle look horrible from the beginning, then you’d be like, ‘Well, why’s he doing it?’” asks Robbie, not unreasonably. “I think nudity for the sake of nudity is shameful,” she continues. “If they’ve put it in just so that a girl gets her top off, then that’s disgusting. And you can always tell. “But I also think it’s disgusting when someone would have got naked in real life, in the film they conveniently leave their bra on, or hold up the bed sheet. Seeing someone being choreographed into being covered up irritates me just as much. “The whole point of Naomi is that her body is her only form of currency in this world. So when Marty was trying to help me out, and said in the scene where she seduces Jordan perhaps I could have a robe on, I said she wouldn’t. She has to be naked. She’s laying her cards on the table.” It’s easy to wonder if there’s an element of that attitude in Robbie’s approach to her own career. Shortly after the Croatia anecdote, she tells another story, very different in tone. She used her time on Neighbours, she explains, to hothouse herself, taking classes and making contacts in every spare moment she wasn’t on set in Melbourne. That way, when her big chance came along – perhaps the only big chance – she would be ready. Dialogue coaching, she says, was a priority. Her American accent had to be flawless. (It is.) She also sought out an Australian agent with good connections in Los Angeles. She flew there in January 2011 for what’s known in the industry as pilot season: two months of intensive auditions when the major television networks cast their up-and-coming projects. “I spent my time on Neighbours getting my ducks lined up,” she says. “Because in America they need to see you at the right time. “It has to be like: ‘Who is she? Great. Can we see her? Yes, here she is. Her accent? Nothing to complain about. Her acting? Good.’ If they can’t see you, they forget you, and if they’ve seen you before, you’re old news.” The planning paid off. Then, when things came temporarily unstuck, it paid off again. In the spring of 2011, Robbie won a central role on the ABC drama Pan Am. The show was cancelled the following May, after one season – and that same month, she sent an audition tape to Martin Scorsese. A month later, she shot a small role in the Richard Curtis romantic comedy About Time, in Cornwall. Two months after that, she was in New York, on the set of The Wolf of Wall Street. “I’ve peaked way too early!” she laughs. “Where do you go from there?” Backpacking in Croatia and a meeting with Will Smith is the answer, clearly. And from there? Well, we shall see.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
