REUTERS/StringerSmoke rises from an oil tank fire in Es Sider port December 26, 2014.LONDON (Reuters) - Brent crude oil rose to around $60 per barrel on Monday, supported by concerns about disruption to output from Libya, but a global supply glut kept prices nearly 50 percent off their peak for the year. Libya is producing a scant 128,000 barrels of oil a day from fields connected to the far eastern port of Hariga, an oil official said, as fighting kept its largest ports, Es Sider and Ras Lanuf, shut. The OPEC member nation has struggled with port blockades and protests, slashing output from the 1.6 million barrels a day it produced prior to the 2011 ousting of leader Muammar Gaddafi. A fire sparked by a rocket attack last week on storage tanks at the port of Es Sider marked an escalation in damage to the country's oil infrastructure. "There's tension in Libya, but liquidity is very thin so not much is needed to move oil prices," said Hans van Cleef, senior energy economist at ABN Amro in Amsterdam. Trade was sparse, with many investors away for the holidays. Van Cleef added that the overall picture remained bearish, with traders looking for reasons to sell. "It's very supply driven. On the demand side, the only impact is when you see a negative change in data." Brent crude &lt;LCOc1&gt; was up 51 cents at $59.96 by 9.40 a.m. after hitting $60.43. The benchmark shed 79 cents in the previous session. Brent is down around 46 percent since a year high above $115 per barrel hit in June. It has been weighed down by a decision taken by OPEC in November not to cut supply to address the slump in prices and comments since from Saudi Arabia expressing comfort with lower prices. Oil is on track for its biggest fall this year since 2008 and the second-biggest annual fall since futures started trading in the 1980s. U.S. crude &lt;CLc1&gt; rose 46 cents to $55.19 after closing $1.11 down in thin trade on Friday. It rose to a peak of $55.74 early on Monday. Keeping gains in check, uncertainty on the outlook for the economy in Europe increased after the Greek parliament rejected the government's presidential candidate, setting the stage for an election that anti-bailout party Syriza could win. (Additional reporting by Keith Wallis in Singapore; Editing by Michael Urquhart) FREE AppDownload
