REUTERS/Rodi SaidDisplaced people from the minority Yazidi sect, fleeing violence from forces loyal to the Islamic State in Sinjar town, walk towards the Syrian border, on the outskirts of Sinjar mountain, near the Syrian border town of Elierbeh of Al-Hasakah Governorate August 10, 2014.Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Tuesday. 1. Actor and brilliant standup comedian Robin Williams died in an apparent suicide Monday night. He was 63.  2. Iraq's president appointed a new prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, to replace incumbent leader Nuri al-Maliki. Maliki, however, has made it clear that he will not go quietly. "Potentially, I wouldn't exclude the possibility that Maliki would try some sort of coup," author of "Inside Iraq Politics" Kirk Sowell told CNN. "I would exclude the possibility that it might succeed." 3. Heated protests in Ferguson, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis, continued for a second night following the fatal shooting of an unarmed teenager by a police officer. The F.B.I has now opened a probe into the shooting.  4. Three-time NASCAR champion Tony Stewart will not face criminal charges after his car struck and killed 20-year-old Kevin Ward Jr. during a race Saturday night. Following the incident, Stewart has pulled out of his next race at Plymouth Speedway scheduled for this coming Saturday.  5. Russia is sending a convoy of trucks carrying humanitarian aid to eastern Ukraine. The relief mission is reportedly in collaboration with the International Committee of the Red Cross, although a spokesman for the agency told the Associated Press that he did not know where the trucks were headed or what they were carrying.  6. The Liberian government will receive sample doses of an experimental drug for Ebola after approval from the U.S. Zmapp has so far been used to treat two U.S. aid workers and an Ebola patient in Spain.  7. Luxury retailer Barney's will pay $520,000 to settle allegations that African-American shoppers were singled out as suspected shoplifters because of their race, The Financial Times reported. The investigation was spurred by customer complaints at a Manhattan department store.  8. Iraqi forces are dropping food and supplies to aid the thousands of Yazidis trapped on Mount Sinjar in Iraq. The minority group was driven to the mountains by ISIS militants.  9. Australia signed a defense agreement with the United States that will allow for "more U.S. marines and aircraft in the Northern Territory and closer co-operation on missile defense," Sky News reports. The military expansion will take place over the next two decades.  10. Despite a price hike in January, the U.S. Postal Service said it lost $2 billion during its second quarter. The agency said the loss was largely due to a $1.5 billion increase in operating expenses.  FREE AppDownload
