Even if well-intentioned, the wrong fashion tips can sabotage your style.  A recent Reddit men's fashion thread asked "what is bad clothing advice that people give?"  We selected some of our favorites.  1. "As long as the shirt fits at the collar, it's fine."  "I'm a small skinny guy with a bull neck and long arms," writes ericelectrik. "Chances are if it fits my arms and neck it doesn't fit my body." There are several things to consider when buying a dress shirt. A good dress shirt will be fitted through the torso, with sleeves reaching about an inch past your wristbone. If you have trouble finding a shirt that fits, try visiting a tailor or ordering a custom one online. Shutterstock2. "You have to own the perfect suit for a complete wardrobe."  Lists of wardrobe essentials usually include dressy items like a black suit for formal events, notes Photosynthesis. No two people are alike, and it's impossible to create a wardrobe checklist that fits everyone. Evaluate your own lifestyle. If you rarely go to black-tie events, try renting your formal-wear instead. Business Insider Video3. "Dressing well means you have to be uncomfortable."  If you're uncomfortable, it's going to show. Even formal clothing should be comfortable to wear. And casual outfits that are fitted the right way can look great. "A frumpy suit looks way worse than a well-fitting casual outfit like a hoodie and jeans," writes maxwellsays. American Apparel4. "Wearing larger clothing will make you look slim."  Extra fabric creates bulk, which actually makes you look larger.  "A proper fit is what will make your body look more streamlined," writes styletrumpsfashion.  Flickr/to.wi 5. "Fasten the bottom button of your suit jacket."  "Too many people do this," writes Nobody-Man.  This helpful guide explains that you should fasten the top button sometimes, the middle button always, and the bottom button never. Julien M. Hekimian/Getty Images6. "Men can wear suits anywhere. Always wear a suit."  "No, don't always wear a suit...don't be the jerk who shows up to a party in a suit when everyone else is wearing jeans and a t-shirt. You don't look cool—you look like a tool," writes vm88. "Social context is a huge part of dressing well."Richard Cartwright/Fox7. "If you copy celebrity style, you'll look fashionable."  As Hungryone points out, celebrity style can look out-of-place among normal people.  Chances are, you'd feel uncomfortable wearing Kanye's bright print in your office. Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images8. "Pants will start to fit once you wash them a few times."  You're going to wait forever for this to happen if your pants are too baggy, writes niceniceverycool.  Pants can shrink a little in the wash. But if your pants are overly baggy, spent a few dollars getting them tailored. You'll be happy you did. REUTERS/Suzanne Plunkett9. "Buy once, buy for life."  As GraphicNovelty points out, the idea that every clothing item you purchase has to be perfect is overwhelming.  "There's a time and place for that when you know what your style is. However, if you do this all the time when you're starting out you'll have a bunch of really nice stuff you never wear," he writes. "Plus, sometimes its fun to buy trendy items that you'll only really want to wear for a season."Lululemon FREE AppDownload
