"This election is about competence. It truly is about competence," Welch said on CNBC's "Squawk Box." He went on to attack "liberals" in government. "Let me give you a classic example of why we don't have competence. Take New York City," Welch said. The former General Electric CEO proceeded to single out the city's school's chancellor for his criticism. He appeared to cite a report indicating a number of superintendents recently reappointed to their jobs came from underperforming schools. "The chancellor of the school system is named Carmen Fariña. She just appointed 15 superintendents: seven from failing schools, five from disasters — 10% passing tests, et cetera — as superintendents! When you have a philosophy of putting in place people without a meritocracy, without differentiation, you get bad performance," Welch continued. Welch really started getting on a roll when he argued no one in the business world would hire deputies with the same record of success as those school superintendents. "You couldn't run CNBC, you couldn't run GE, you couldn't run Apple, you couldn't run Google, you couldn't run any company if you took seven of your 15 appointments to division managers and made them flunkies, hacks. And you stuck them in the schools, you can't do it. It's that system of no meritocracy, of no differentiation, 'we're all equal,' you don't get performance," he said. "You can't do it. You just can't do it!" Update (5:40 p.m.): Reached for comment, BOE spokeswoman Devora Kaye spoke broadly about Fariña's policies: "Chancellor Fariña is determined to make this the best urban system in the country, bar none, and as a former superintendent, she knows what it takes to hold principals and schools accountable and improve student outcomes. Our current superintendents are the right leaders for these jobs and each has a proven track record as an instructional leader and is committed to working tirelessly to improve the schools they support. These leaders will report to the chancellor and she will hold them accountable." Watch Welch's full comments below.  FREE AppDownload
