CNBCVladimir Putin remains defiant about the popular uprising in Ukraine, saying that ex-President Viktor Yanukovych was willing to fix the crisis in February and his ouster was a "coup d'état." In a live CNBC interview, the Russian president said that "what is happening in Ukraine now is chaos," adding that Ukraine refuses to talk about Russian concerns about business deals with the EU and the possibility that Ukraine will join NATO. Putin vacillated from serious statements to jokes, eliciting clapping and laughs from the crowd at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. Asked about gas in Ukraine, he said that Kiev should pay the $3.5 billion it owes Russia for gas: "Where is the money? Give us our money! That will help the situation." In a speech earlier, the Russian president said the turmoil in Ukraine — where Russian-backed separatists are commandeering about 15% of the country and attacked troops — amounts to "full-scale civil war." Kiev's fledgling government is attempting to hold a presidential election on Sunday, and Russia has questioned the legitimacy of the vote while there's heavy fighting in eastern regions of the country.  Putin accused Ukraine of abusing its position as a transit country for natural gas. He added that EU and U.S. sanctions on Russia will have a "boomerang effect" on the West. "Sanctions will backlash," he said, according to one translation. "I do understand those foreign businessmen concerned with the implications of the sanctions." Asked about criticisms from Barack Obama, Putin said (according to the translator): "Who is he to judge? If he wants to judge people, why doesn't he get a job in a court somewhere." Asked what went wrong with the "reset" with America, he says that "unilateral actions" by the U.S. is what soured relations. On NSA leaker Edward Snowden, who is living in an undisclosed location in Russia: "We do not have any direct relation to this problem. He turned up on our territory because of non-professional actions by the U.S. themselves. ... If they didn't scare anyone, he would have flown to some other country and be sitting in a jail somewhere. ... Mr. Snowden considers that he's a champion of human rights. He's a young man — I don't know how he is going to live further. I'm serious. He is sitting in Russia now. We gave him refuge but he didn't tell us anything." REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinPutin speaks during a session of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum 2014 (SPIEF 2014) in St. Petersburg May 23, 2014.  Tone of Putin's speech so far emphasizes turn from West to East, with emphasis on developing Eurasian trading - comes after China gas deal The 30-year gas supply contract, estimated to be worth more than $400 billion, will involve building a massive pipeline that will send natural gas from Russia to China for 30 years. Gazprom The Kremlin's actions in Ukraine include annexing the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea under the pretext of protecting Russian speakers and abetting sham independence referendums in two regions in the country's east. Prominent people across the globe have compared actions by the former KGB colonel — who has also been fueling rising nationalism at home — to Adolf Hitler in the 1930s. Reuters/Skitch FREE AppDownload
