REUTERSFilipino brokers at the Manila Stock Exchange in the financial district of Makati on December 29, 1993 shout loud hurrahs as the Stock market closed at new all-time highs on the last trading day of the year.Dave Lutz of Stifle, Nicolaus has the top topics about which traders are chatting today: Good Morning!   US Futures are under pressure, sliding consistently lower as more US traders man their terminals – Unlike yesterday, which saw Nasdaq sharply underperforming pre-market, the S&amp;P is off 20bp – while NDX futures are only slightly lower, but well below the 100dma.   Watching the Internet bloodbath – overseas Tencent rebounded 2% (Buyback Impact), Naver popped 50bp after being down over 2.5%.  We are seeing sharp weakness in the EU Fins, with that index off 2.5% to start the day – driving DAX futures off 1% - Unlike the previous sessions, volumes are quite heavy in Europe, with the EuroStoxx trading 50% above 20day averages, FTSE and DAX trading 20% above.    Rhetoric is worsening in Ukraine, which could be a driver – and Russian Equities are solidly in the red again.   Emerging Markets continue to find favor – with the EEM bearing down on a 4M high this AM as the yield plunge in developed markets drives flows towards EM.  Over in Asia, The Nikkei lost 1% as the Yen surged due to the BOJ holding pat, disspointing those who wanted additional easing to offset the recent tax hike.  The Shanghai jumps 2% after being closed yesterday, and Aussie closed relatively flat as the Miners found favor yet again.The 10YY in the USA is unchanged, and remains under the 200dma and the 2.7% level as flows from equities find a home in Credit.  The Yield Curve in the US continues to flatten, showing lowering economic expectations, and a big headwind for the Fins.  The € remains well bid over the $, as does the Yen, pressing the DXY toward 3 week lows – a tailwind for commodities.   Precious metals are having a good day as angst builds with Russia, popping Gold up 1% thru $1300/oz again.   The Energy complex is well bid, as we await Libyan resolution and US Inventory data from API tonight.   We have a active catalyst calendar today, starting with NFIB Small Business Optimism at 7:30, JOLTs Job Openings at 10, a Brazil Bond Auction and the week’s smallest POMO at 11, a $30B 3Y note sale at 1, Brazil Bond Auction speaks at 1:30, Fed's Plosser Speaks on Bank Regulation at 2:45, and at 4 we have a Fed Board Open Meeting on Rulemakings on Leverage Ratios. FREE AppDownload
