Pop quiz! What’s a "zombie bank?" No, it’s not the latest Halloween costume to hit the shelves. It’s actually a term that’s used to describe insolvent banks that are being kept barely alive through government support or bailouts. If that phrase is new to you, you’re not alone. There are all sorts of economic terms that get tossed about in the news that don’t exactly lend themselves to intuitive understanding — making finance feel like an exclusive club with its own secret language. But New York Times best-selling author and journalist John Lanchester argues that everyone can — and should — be a part of the inner circle. In his new book, "How to Speak Money," Lanchester makes the case that everyone is capable of understanding how the economy works … as long as they can demystify all the acronyms and jargon. Since we’re all for helping people feel more confident about their finances, we sat down with Lanchester to learn more about his book — and even which concepts he finds confusing. John Lanchester: I’m an outsider myself to the world of finance and economics, and I found that the first obstacle to following this stuff was the vocabulary. It’s the first thing that gets in the way when you’re trying to learn, and it’s an essential tool to have in order to be engaged in the conversation. Finance can feel exclusive if you’re not following the thread. And that can make you feel powerless. The credit crunch during the recession was a very confusing time for me and for many others. We were all minding our own business, thinking that things were running along just fine — and suddenly there was this systemic convulsion (the recession, that is) that affected everyone. It was as if the global financial institute reached into everyone’s life and started messing with the settings. That was the moment when I felt an urgency to understand the world of finance — since there didn’t seem to be a system in place that I could really trust. RELATED: 6 Rookie Portfolio Mistakes Even Seasoned Investors Make Flickr / -Ben ThompsonFinancial terminology isn't intuitive, but some reading on the subject should help. It’s the fact that the terminology isn’t intuitive. Look at the plumbing industry, for example. It has its own jargon, and while you may not know the exact difference between a J-bend and a U-bend pipe, you can roughly figure out what they mean. But when I say "quantitative easing," well, there’s simply nothing there to help you understand what those terms mean — there’s no way in. It sounds bland, like a medication someone would take for constipation, but it’s actually a huge and slightly scary financial experiment. You have to go and find the explanation on your own. RELATED: 6 Ways Big-Picture Economic Trends Can Impact Your Wallet We could go round and round on that one and not get anywhere. You can’t prove it one way or another. There are some terms that financial professionals know in their bones and outsiders simply don’t. "Compound interest" is one. It’s not a complicated idea, but it’s one that insiders have in their DNA, so they toss it around without ever stopping to explain what it means. That’s an example not of deliberate exclusion but rather hard-wired, baked-in knowledge. But the important thing to consider here is the effect. If someone is talking about "vanilla mezzanine RMBS synthetic CDO," it doesn’t matter if the confusion is deliberate or not. The net effect is that you’re left feeling completely excluded. Editor’s note: Vanilla mezzanine RMBS synthetic CDO is a type of financial product that played a role in the subprime mortgage crisis. RMBS stands for residential mortgage-backed security, while CDO stands for collateralized debt obligation. How’s that for a mouthful? There’s a classic Peanuts Comic Strip cartoon where Charlie Brown and Peppermint Patty are talking about that comfortable, safe feeling you get sleeping in the back of the car while your parents are in the front doing all of the driving and the worrying. And then, one day, all of a sudden it’s you in the front and there’s no going back. When it comes to the world of economics, right now we’re all in the front of the car. As we all learned during the recession, there’s no grown-up in charge. You have to take responsibility for your own economic choices. When people aren’t informed, the texture of our democracy thins. Democracy implies an informed electorate. And if we go into the ballot booth making decisions at random, that’s a problem. RELATED: Financial Power Trip: How to Show Your Money Who’s Boss Flickr/DellFinancial concepts, just like words, can be confusing. For one, there’s the relationship between credit and debt, which is really important and often misunderstood. The thing we call "credit" is really debt. It’s not a credit card, it’s a debt card. That’s not complicated or fancy, but understanding that is really just being honest with yourself. And then there are terms that, oddly enough, turn out to mean the opposite of what they sound like. For example, "securitization" sounds like a process that makes things safe. But what it really means is that you’re taking one big risk and spreading it into smaller risks. Let’s say I lend you money. I have to think really hard about whether you can pay me back. But I don’t need to worry about the risk if I securitize the loan, which means I transfer the loan to others and get paid back immediately. Now the borrower is paying back the people I transferred the loan to. But that breaks down the link between the lender and the borrower. This happened a lot during the recession — and people were given loans that they could never pay back. So, in this case, securitization wasn’t very secure at all. RELATED: Mortgages 101: What You Need to Know There should be increased transparency between experts and consumers. During the financial crisis, the riskiest and least understood product, a subprime mortgage, was sold to the least informed consumers. That sounds crazy, but it’s normal. There isn’t enough consumer protection at the point of sale, so everyone needs to adopt an increased sense that they are responsible for their own education. What I found works is simply following what happens day to day in the news. Every time you don’t understand a term, look it up. Over time you will build up a map of terminology. And pretty soon you’ll be able to look at the paper and understand what you’re reading, and then you can form an opinion about whether you think the information that’s being presented to you is reasonable. That’s the crucial thing: Having the power to form your own opinions. FREE AppDownload
