They emerged as a novel way for the rich and famous to expand their homes, but now multi-story basements are set to be outlawed in one of Britain's wealthiest areas. The London borough of Kensington and Chelsea has become the first local authority in the country to introduce restrictions on controversial subterranean developments. Basement extensions will still be permitted but the new rules will restrict how far they can stretch under a garden, limit them to a single story in most cases and ban developments under listed buildings altogether. Council cabinet member for planning policy Tim Coleridge said: "Basements have been the single greatest planning concern our residents have expressed to us in living memory. "Many have experienced years of misery from noise, vibration, dust and construction traffic." Basement extensions several stories below the ground have become increasingly popular in some of the capital's most expensive neighborhoods as home owners attempt to increase their living space without infringing strict planning controls. They have led to the creation of what are known as "iceberg homes", with the extra space earmarked to accommodate private cinemas, spas and swimming pools. The trend has gathered pace in the last decade. In 2001 there were just 46 planning applications for basement developments in Kensington and Chelsea, rising to 450 last year. Gert-Rudolf Flick, heir to the Daimler-Benz fortune, last year won permission to dig two stories under his £30 million South Kensington home, facing opposition from neighbours, including Julian Lloyd Webber, the cellist. Proposals for the property included two rooms for clothes — winter and summer — along with a luggage store, a 50ft swimming pool, gym, cinema and beauty room. Jon Hunt, founder of the Foxtons estate agency, won permission for a mega-basement with tennis court and car museum to store his Ferraris at his home in Kensington Palace Gardens. Neighbor Lakshmi Mittal decided that his underground pool should be lined with marble from the same quarry as the Taj Mahal. Residents complained that streets were being turned into 24-hour building sites and while dust, noise, traffic and vibrations were irritating, cracks were also beginning to appear. The council said they have also increased in size, with two and three-storey basements "not uncommon". They have drawn repeated complaints from neighboring residents about noise and dust. Now after a two-year process, Kensington and Chelsea council has announced that a Government planning inspector has given the green light to its proposals to curb the scale of subterranean development. Mr Coleridge said: "It hasn't been easy and basement developers have aggressively opposed us every step of the way. We are delighted that the inspector agrees that we have got it right while at the same time praising us for our extensive public consultation. "Two years ago we started drafting a policy to try and strike the right balance between addressing our residents' concerns and the genuine need for people to expand their homes. "This ruling is a victory not only for the council but also our residents who have been overwhelmingly supportive of what we have been trying to do." The new guidelines are set to be formally adopted at the next full council meeting in January.  FREE AppDownload
