Amazon You're probably wondering why on earth you need this specific blender — the Vitamix S30 — when you can just get any old blender at your local superstore. Well, tl;dr — it's really the best. For starters, you can make pretty much anything in the S30 — so that saves you the hassle of having to get multiple devices for making different things. (Not to mention the money.) The beauty of the S30 is that it comes with two containers: a 20 oz. and a 40 oz. option — depending on what you need that day. With the smaller container, you'll be able to make yourself a quick blended kale-slash-fruit juice (or smoothie, or shake, or whatever you're feeling for a quick meal) and immediately flip it and take it to go. A total time saver, and it makes just enough for one person. On the flip side, with the 40 oz. option you'll be able to make something a bit more substantial, and for multiple people. Think — garlicky tomato sauces for pastas or butternut squash soups in the winter. All you need to do is swap out the top. Another great element about the Vitamix is that it cleans itself (yeah, you read that correctly). Although that's not something most people consider when they're picking out a blender, it's certainly something that comes to mind when you're finagling with a janky blender's blades, trying to clean out the remains of your soup. Think ahead, here. From the engineering perspective, the S30 comes with an interchangeable blade base that attaches to both containers easily, and a powerful motor that can crush even the toughest substances — even ice cubes. Vitamix users swear by the blender's durability. So instead of having to buy a new blender ever year or so, just one, well-made blender is certainly worth the investment. Amazon Full Specs: You can get yourself a Vitamix at Amazon here for $428.85. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
