The significant selloff in tech growth stocks while “cash flows” have rallied over the past couple months, occurring during a period of economic acceleration and spare capacity reduction, has caused me some soul-searching. The two “big hump” generations are Millennials and Boomers. At the moment, Boomers are transitioning from working to retiring and living off their savings, pensions and entitlements. Their need for steady cash flows will only increase from here. On the other hand Millennials are slowly shaking off the ill effects of the past decade, and burdened with student loans while cramped into apartments or their family’s shelter, will see their incomes rise. Initially, and possibly for awhile, that income growth will go into paying down student loans, moving out of their parents’ house, and then eventually save for a downpayment to buy a house, which they’ll see as “shelter” and not “investment.” It may be a solid decade before the impact of Boomer portfolio deleveraging wanes, and before Millennials have enough savings to put into financial assets. So what does this mean for financial assets? One of my favorite “gut check” spreads is the spread between the earnings yield of the S&amp;P 500 (SPX EPS / SPX price) and the Moody’s Baa corporate bond yield. From 1980-2001, using end of year quotes, this spread averaged -3.60%, meaning that corporate bonds yielded 3.6% more than stocks (yes, I’m aware of all the limitations of this — duration mismatch, not apples to apples company-wise, etc). Currently, it’s a bit over 1%, and it’s even spent time over 2% over the past few years, meaning that stocks “yield” more than corporate bonds. What if this persists for 10, 15, 20 years? Imagine it were the end of 1987 and the S&amp;P 500 earnings yield was 6.5% while the Baa yield was 11.3%. If you were a forward-thinking CFO, why wouldn’t you issue a perpetual torrent of low-yielding equity to pay down debt, and once you had done that to build or buy more stuff? It’s what the market was signaling you should do (just ask Mark Zuckerberg). Mid-career Boomers demanded that equity as they built up their 401(k) balances. Now imagine it’s 2014, and who knows, 2019 or 2024, and the Baa yield is sub-5% while the S&amp;P 500 earnings yield is 6%+, and within that index growth appears relatively “cheap” compared to companies with consistent cash flows paying dividends and buying back stock. Why wouldn’t you issue perpetual amounts of cheap debt to buy back stock and/or acquire high growth companies that Boomers can’t afford to buy and Millennials don’t want? You’re swapping low yielding debt that households want for the equity that they don’t. From 1980-2001, the system incentivized corporations to issue equity to buy both growth and bonds (or issue loans, if you will). Boomers wanted to both borrow money and buy stocks. This led to the creation of too much fixed capital and led households to have too much debt. Since 2010, the system is incentivizing corporations to issue debt to buy (or retire/take private) existing capital. Households want to buy that debt (either paying down their own debt/deleveraging or buying fixed cash flows) and don’t want the risk inherent in growthy existing capital. And it’s arguably leading to a fixed capital shortage sometime down the road. In this latter scenario, stocks can do quite well regardless of whether growth is high or how it “feels” to Main Street. It’s all about responding to incentives and how assets are priced relative to each other. FREE AppDownload
