Bloomberg TVInvesting legend Warren Buffett, the founder of Berkshire Hathaway, was on CNBC and Bloomberg TV moments ago. It was pretty uneventful.   The "Oracle of Omaha" just wrapped up a charity lunch at Smith &amp; Wollensky. He auctioned off the lunch on eBay to benefit the Glide Foundation in San Francisco. To date, he has raised $15.6 million with his annual lunch auction. Here's a rundown of the the talking points from both financial TV news networks:  Coke Executive Equity Pay Plan The conversation on CNBC began with today's Coke news. Buffett said that he abstained from today's shareholder vote on Coca-Cola's executive equity compensation plan. He told Bloomberg TV's Liu that it was the first time he had abstained. He said his abstention was a vote of sorts. He added that he could never vote against Coke. "I love the company."  He told CNBC that he didn't want to express "any disapproval" with management, but that he didn't agree with the plan. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway is the biggest Coke shareholder. Buffett said he hasn't sold a share of Coke and doesn't plan to either. He also added that he has enormous respect for Coke's CEO Muhtar Kent. "I love the company and that the right CEO is running it and that it has a bright future." IBM The conversation then turned to IBM, another stock owned by Berkshire Hathaway. The company had disappointing earnings in the first quarter. He said that he wasn't surprised by the disappointing earnings report. Buffett said he bought more stock in IBM earlier this year. He added that he hasn't sold a share. Quick asked him if he would buy more. "Depends on the price," he replied. Activists  CNBC's Quick also asked Buffett about the activist investors.  "All CEOs are terrified of activist hedge funds," he said. He told Bloomberg TV that he doesn't see anything wrong with the activists funds speaking out. As for activist David Winters, who has been vocal about Coke, Buffett said, "it''s perfectly proper" for him to go public. "I wouldn't do it myself...I don't see anything wrong with it."  Tech Bubble? Quick also asked him about hedge fund manager David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital who wrote in a letter yesterday we're witnessing another tech bubble. Buffett said on CNBC that doesn't think that the market has a bubble under it. He told Bloomberg TV that tech stocks are largely unappealing. He added that they're not "tempting."  Annual Meeting Bear Berkshire Hathaway's annual meeting in Omaha is the first weekend in May. He tries to bring on a bear at each meeting. It was hard to find a bear this year. One of Morningstar's analysts will be one of the designated bears at the meeting. Housing As for the housing recovery, Buffett told Bloomberg that housing needs a government guarantee.  He said he didn't see a role for Berkshire in Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. FREE AppDownload
