Thomson ReutersFile of a view from the boardwalk of several casinos in Atlantic City, New JerseyBy Daniel Kelley (Reuters) - The bankrupt Revel Casino Hotel in Atlantic City is set to close by Sept. 10 after its owner failed to find a buyer for the 1,400-room resort, marking the latest casualty for the struggling New Jersey gambling center. Revel Entertainment Corp, which operates Atlantic City's newest casino, filed for bankruptcy protection in June and received court approval to borrow $23.9 million in an effort to keep the casino-hotel operating for another month while it searched for a new owner. "Despite the effort to improve the financial performance of Revel, it has not proven to be enough to put the property on a stable financial footing," the company said in a statement on Tuesday. Revel's closure would put some 3,100 people out of work, according to the state Department of Labor, adding to thousands of other job losses expected in the city as at least three other casinos shut down. The announcement by the Revel, which said it would continue looking for a buyer, comes five days after a scheduled auction of the property was postponed to Thursday to allow more time to evaluate bids. "While we continue to hope for a sale of Revel, in some form, through the pending bankruptcy process, Revel cannot avoid an orderly wind-down of the business at this time," it said. Revel, built at a cost of $2.4 billion, opened in April 2012 just as the city's fortunes were beginning a massive decline, has been hurt by new gaming options in nearby Pennsylvania and Delaware siphoned away visitors. The company has said it was losing $2 million a week, even in the busy summer season. The Revel's closing could leave Atlantic City with a third fewer casinos than at the start of the year, when 12 casinos were in operation. In July, Trump Plaza Hotel announced it would close in September. The Atlantic Club casino was sold and shut down in January and the Showboat Atlantic City, one of the city's largest properties, announced it will close at the end of August.  (Reporting by Daniel Kelley; Writing by Laila Kearney; Editing by Barbara Goldberg and Bill Trott) FREE AppDownload
