Dano via FlickrParting doesn’t always have to be sweet sorrow, especially when it comes to monetary policy divergence. As two of the world’s largest central banks prepare to tighten, equities in countries and regions where central banks are still easing are poised for relative outperformance. Michael O’Sullivan, Chief Investment Officer for the U.K., Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa for Credit Suisse’s Private Banking &amp; Wealth Management division, expects the global business cycle to pick up in the second half of this year, which should provide a more supportive environment for stocks everywhere. But O’Sullivan expects European and Japanese equities to outperform British and American stocks over the next three to six months, largely due to differences in monetary policy. “The Bank of England will very soon start draining liquidity, and it’s an open question when the Federal Reserve will begin to raise rates,” he says. “In Europe and Japan, not only do you have a cyclical recovery, but the European Central Bank is active, and the Bank of Japan is expected to be active later on this year.”  In early June, the European Central Bank introduced negative deposit rates and announced a targeted long-term refinancing operation (TLTRO) that could inject as much as €1 trillion into European banks over the next two years. It’s not as dramatic as quantitative easing, but O’Sullivan says the move was nevertheless a significant event in a region where banks have been deleveraging for the last two years. “The effect of this kind of extraordinary monetary policy should be quite different in Europe than in the United States,” he says. “Whereas the U.S. is a market-driven economy, Europe is much more reliant upon banks and should see a relatively larger benefit from an attempt to push more liquidity into the banking system.” The measures, says O’Sullivan, should bolster the ongoing European recovery and prevent a deflationary shock. (Annual inflation in Europe has been below 1 percent for nine months.) The European manufacturing sector expanded for the twelfth straight month in June, while services businesses reported an eleventh consecutive month of growth. If demand for consumer goods and industrial equipment keeps rising, the ECB may succeed in easing credit conditions just as businesses are seeking fresh loans to invest and expand. What’s more, says O’Sullivan, the ECB could still introduce an asset purchase program later this year.  Equities in peripheral Europe have outperformed over the past year, but Credit Suisse’s Private Banking analysts believe markets may have overheated in places such as Italy, where equities are up 14 percent year to date. They think that German stocks, which are poised to benefit from an already strong economy’s accelerating growth over the next six months, have more room to run. In Japan, meanwhile, the consumer price index rose 3.4 percent and 3.7 percent year-over-year in April and May, respectively, the highest rates in 32 years and a welcome change from the drag of deflation between June 2012 and May 2013. Some of that increase could be due to the after-effects of retailers hiking their prices ahead of a value-added tax increase in April, but Credit Suisse economists believe inflation would have been positive even after adjusting for the tax hike. Retail sales fell 4.4 percent year-over-year in April, but only 0.4 percent in May, indicating that sticker shock may be fading.  Two months does not a trend make, however, and Private Banking analysts say the Bank of Japan will likely re-evaluate the state of the recovery in the third quarter, despite the fact that Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in April that he saw no need for further stimulus. At the very least, the analysts believe policymakers will continue their current ¥6 trillion ($59 billion) to ¥8 trillion ($79 billion) in monthly asset purchases until the end of 2015. Companies included in the benchmark TOPIX index have announced $25 billion worth of stock buybacks this year, spurred on by relatively low valuations, low interest rates, and a ¥232 trillion ($2.29 trillion) cash pile. O’Sullivan says companies that would benefit from a cyclical upturn, such as industrials companies and machinery manufacturers, look particularly promising. Structural reforms – the so-called third arrow of Abenomics – could also boost Japanese equities. In June, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe proposed lowering the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to below 30 percent and shifting Japanese government pension fund allocations away from government bonds toward equities.  Many investors in British and American equities have profited handsomely over the last few years from central bank-fueled economic recoveries. In today’s market, the geography has shifted, but not the strategy.  FREE AppDownload
