Getty ImagesHow many suits are in your closet? Are they the right ones? Whether you need to wear a suit every day to work or just need something in your closet for special occasions, the task of buying suits can seem daunting. However, it doesn't need to be. Buying suits can be easy and even fun without breaking the bank. If anyone in the world wants you buying a closet full of suits, it's Kyle Vucko, co-founder and CEO of Indochino, a company making some of the best inexpensive made-to-measure suits around. Still, he says that the first consideration in how many suits you need is what you do for a living. "Everyone needs at least one suit," he says. "You can even get by at a job where you have to wear suits every day on three." Samantha Shih, founder and CEO of 9Tailors thinks that three is the magic number for all men. "You need a grey suit, a black suit and a navy suit," she says. Another question guys building their suit wardrobe up often wonder about is where to wear what they have. Shih explained that black suits are very formal, while navy is more professional. Medium grays are good for just about any occasion. Vucko recommends that you go with the navy suit first, or maybe a charcoal. After that, you should get a light grey or a sharkskin blue. Solids come first, then pinstripe, then checks. Why? "If you're not wearing suits every day, it's important to keep them more neutral," says Shih. The reason being that you're more likely to wear the same suit on multiple occasions. "If you're buying suits to wear to special occasions, people are going to notice that you've recycled your suit if it's a more memorable pattern," says Shih. Indeed, Vucko recommends that you avoid even pinstripes until you buy your fifth or sixth suit. "I'm a big proponent of purpose," says Shih. "Ask yourself, 'What's the purpose of what I'm wearing?'" After that, the main consideration is fit. "Definitely try things on," she says. And while not everyone can afford even the most inexpensive made-to-measure suits (which generally come in at around $600 to $800), basically anyone can afford to buy something off the rack and get it tailored. "Zara is a great place for guys who want a mid-range suit," says Shih, who also likes what J. Crew has on offer for off-the-rack men's suits. Tailoring will come in at under $100, making even an off-the-rack suit noticeably less expensive than something bespoke. Vucko is a huge fan of the crisp white shirt. However, he acknowledges that for the man on a budget, they come with problems. "White shirts can be tough to clean," he says. "They fade and lose their luster." On the other hand, pastel shirts are less versatile, but hold up better in the long run. "Ginghams are a great way to go, because you can dress them up and dress them down," he says. Another advantage? They can be worn with either suits or jeans, depending on your preference. Another thing Vucko loves? Using a tie or pocket square to color pop an otherwise unmemorable suit. "I'd say that I strongly encourage men to wear a pocket square," he says. "It's an easy and inexpensive way to add fun to an outfit." What's more, Vucko thinks that they might even be better in outfits with no tie. "It's one of those places like socks where you have almost total free reign," he says. The ultimate accessory, however, is the shoe and this is an area where the otherwise easy going Vucko has some decidedly strong opinions. "It's really easy to say 'I'll just get an $80 pair of shoes,' but I see them as an investment. Spend the money." On what? For Vucko, it's an emphatic "brown." "I think the name of the color that I swear by is called 'tobacco,'" he says. "Unless you're wearing a tux or going to a funeral, you can even wear them with black suits." FREE AppDownload
