Wal-Mart just recalled donkey meat in China because it contained meat from other animals, including fox.  Despite the recent scandal, the mega-retailer has become wildly popular in China. Wal-Mart plans to open 110 additional stores there in the next few years.  Shopping at a Chinese Wal-Mart is totally different from shopping in one in the U.S.  We highlighted some notable contrasts.  1. People pick up raw meat to buy with their bare hands.  Reuters captured this image of customers selecting pieces of rabbit meat with their bare hands at a Wal-Mart Supercenter in the Chongqing municipality.  Reuters Staff/Reuters  2. The crowds are way worse.  Reuters shows an insane stampede at a newly-opened Shanghai location. Travel writer Catherine Bodry says that Chinese Wal-Marts are uncomfortably crowded inside, with no room for personal space.  Reuters Staff/Reuters  3. You can catch your own frogs, fish, and turtles.  American YouTube user ILuvTrading was a little creeped out by the open tanks. He also notes that they smell bad.   Wikimedia Commons 4. You don't buy in bulk.  Most Chinese shoppers don't have space at home to store massive quantities of food, so Wal-Mart offers smaller quantities there.  Wikimedia Commons  5. Wal-Mart offers free bus rides for shoppers.  YouTube user SurfDawg5 highlights how Wal-Mart makes it easy for shoppers to get to the store.  YouTube  6. You can buy alligator meat.  There are other exotic reptiles available if you prefer lizards.  Wikimedia Commons  7. LCD screens advertise the products in every aisle.  These advertisements can change with the displays.  PRNewswire  8. Rice is sold in giant, open vats.  Customers just scoop their quantity into a bag, similar to produce in America.  Wootang01 on Flickr 9. There are luxury candy sections.  Flickr user David Thiel was surprised at the impressive selection when he visited a store in Shanghai.  davidthiel on Flickr  10. Foods are mostly kept in the open instead of being packaged.  "The Chinese are more focused on eating natural-looking food straight from a farm," Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital, told us. "It doesn’t make sense to necessarily package a piece of steak at a Wal-Mart China." JSolomon on Flickr FREE AppDownload
