Sometimes it seems like the world is falling apart. Between Ebola, climate change, Russia's invasion of the Ukraine, and the ongoing war in Iraq and Syria, there's bad news everywhere you look. Yet while speaking at the UN on September 24, President Obama said that he often tells young people in the United States "that this is the best time in human history to be born, for you are more likely than ever before to be literate, to be healthy, and to be free to pursue your dreams." So, is this really be the best time to be born? Absolutely, by many measures — whether you are born in the US or the rest of the world. Despite the fact that plenty of problems exist, people are healthier now than ever, the world has become significantly less violent, and education is more available now than it ever has been. Here are 23 charts that show why this is the best time to be born. We've made this graphic that shows how both have changed since then.  The countries are color-coded by region: red is East Asia and the Pacific, orange is Europe and Central Asia, yellow is the Americas, green is the Middle East and North Africa, light blue is South Asia, and dark blue is Sub-Saharan Africa. (An interactive version is available here.) Health Resources and Services Administration Richard Peto, Alan D. Lopez, Ole F. Norheim Bill Gates uses this chart to help demonstrate the ways that vaccines have transformed our world.  This chart shows the change in morbidity from various diseases in the US from the pre-vaccine era to the modern era. Leon Farrant In 1988, the World Health Assembly decided to start tyring to eliminate polio from the world through comprehensive vaccination programs. Look at the progress so far. CDC This charts shows changes in the US since 1960. Health Resources and Services Administration World Health Organization Global income distribution has shifted so that many people who were making $1 a day are now more likely to make $10 a day.  This chart divides the world into those above the middle class, the middle class, the near poor, the moderately poor, and the extremely poor. Obviously, there's still room for progress, but the percentage of workers that are middle class and above has grown. International Labour Organization Harvard psychology professor Steven Pinker explains that violence of all sorts has been declining for years — by most measures, we're living in the most peaceful time in human history. Human Security Report Project/2013 Report The CDC shows that youth homicides are less than 50% of what they were in the mid 1990s. CDC Human Security Report Project Thought there have been some fluctuations, there's a clear trend towards fewer homicides over time. Claude Fischer, professor of sociology, UC Berkeley Steven Pinker It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  UNESCO Better Angels Of Our Nature/Gates Notes "The Improving State of the World" (c) Cato Institute 2007. Used with permission It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon   Internation Telecommunications Union/Wikimedia Commons Bill Gates has said "We're on this rising tide that's not recognized. It's overwhelming how prosperity is spread around the world." The world is far from perfect, and there are plenty of areas of improvement needed. But is now the best time in history to be born? We'd say so. FREE AppDownload
