REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA Shell logo is seen at a petrol station in London January 31, 2013.Britain’s most valuable company Royal Dutch Shell plans to cut its upstream spending in America by a fifth and reorganize its operations into smaller “performance units” in its first major shake up since Ben van Beurden took over as chief executive officer at the beginning of the year. In terms of upstream operations in the Americas "Shell is shrinking this portfolio and cost base, with 2014 spending to be reduced by 20 pc compared to 2013, and redirecting onshore investment to the lowest cost gas acreage with the best integration potential, and into on-going exploration in liquids-rich shales,” the company said. Shell is reshaping its business after the company surprised the market at the beginning of the year with a profits warning and revealed a 48pc drop in fourth-quarter earnings to $2.9bn, its worst three-month period for five years. “With sharper accountability in the company, this approach will target growth investment more effectively, focus on areas of the business where performance improvement is most required, and drive asset sales from non-strategic positions,” said van Beurden. The new organizational changes are part of a drive to cut capital spending at the Anglo-Dutch energy giant to $37bn this year, from $46bn in 2013 and prune its portfolio with about $15bn of asset sales. The Telegraph revealed last month that Shell had place three of its ageing operating platforms in the North Sea up for sale after it had raised $2.14bn from the sale of assets in Brazil and offshore Australia. More disposals are expected. “This approach is driving hard choices on today’s asset base, new opportunities, and disposals plans, where we have recently announced exits from Australia and Italy downstream, Wheatstone LNG in Australia, and US gas-to-liquids,” said van Beurden. Transforming its US business will be a key challenge for Shell, which is yet to benefit from the revolution in Shale oil and gas after its main prospect failed to deliver returns. The company is currently selling a 700,000 acre area across Texas and Kansas following a re-evaluation of its US shale assets last year. “I am determined that, by focusing sharply on our three key priorities – better financial performance, in particular in our Upstream Americas and Downstream businesses, enhanced capital efficiency, and continuing strong project delivery, we will continue to grow our cash flow and improve our returns,” said van Beurden. The company also plans to focus on “future opportunities” in some of the world’s richest resource basins in East Africa, Iraq and Kazakhstan after earnings from exploration and production activities last year were impacted “factors such as losses in North America and the security situation in Nigeria.”  FREE AppDownload
