REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukRussia's President Vladimir Putin attends the closing ceremony of the 2014 Paralympic Winter Games in Sochi, March 16, 2014. Today’s news reports about Ukraine, Russia, and separatists demonstrate the fog of war in action. We have written on this subject recently. Word comes today (see this Bloomberg piece) that the Ukrainian army has destroyed part of a column of military vehicles that crossed the border from Russia. Meanwhile, Vladimir Putin continues to insist that Russia has no military presence in Ukraine. The details of Ukrainian military forces’ engagement with separatists are lost in the fog of war. However, the interplay boils down to some fundamental realities. Putin does not want Ukraine to be part of NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) or the European Union. That is a line he has drawn in the sand. Putin continues to up the ante. In addition to his aggressive new moves with the convoys (humanitarian or otherwise) headed for Eastern Ukraine, he is making moves on his far eastern front that threaten Russia's relationship with Japan, as this Bloomberg piece explains. One additional factor must be considered as we assess market reactions and geopolitical dynamics. Every passing day brings us closer to winter. It is the power of colder weather that allows Russia, as a key supplier of energy to Europe, to apply leverage. That leverage can take the form of higher prices, restricted volumes, a combination of both, or negotiations that directly or indirectly affect these additional costs. Markets are reacting this afternoon to the ongoing developments, but in the fog of war it makes little difference what the specific elements are in each event. Instead, what drives market valuations is the knowledge of applied costs. No matter how Ukraine, Russia, and the separatists sort themselves out, the costs continue to rise. We are continuing to maintain a cash reserve. David R. Kotok, Chairman and Chief Investment Officer Resources:To sign-up for Market Commentaries from Cumberland Advisors: http://www.cumber.com/signup.aspx  For Cumberland Advisors Investment Portfolio Styles: http://www.cumber.com/styles.aspx?file=styles_index.asp  For personal correspondence: david.kotok@cumber.com Twitter: @CumberlandADV This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
