Radio Free EuropeThe European Union is expected to agree on new sanctions targeting Russia's financial, energy, and defense sectors at a meeting in Brussels. Ambassadors from all the EU states are expected on July 29 to impose new measures that include restrictions on Russian banks accessing European markets, curbs on dealings with the energy sector, and an embargo on weapons and dual-use goods. EU sources say the bloc is also planning to add the names of eight more individuals and three entities to the sanctions list for their alleged role in the Ukrainian crisis. The names are expected to be made public on July 30, when they are published in the EU's official record. The U.S. daily "The Wall Street Journal" reported on July 28 that the new sanctions would limit the operational ability of major Russian banks, including Sberbank and VTB Bank. The newspaper said the measures were part of a plan to increase pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin, whom the United States and the European Union accuse of providing training, personnel, and weapons to pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. Russia has denied supplying weapons to the rebels. Calls for the EU to impose new sanctions have been fuelled by the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 on July 17. The West accuses separatists of shooting down the passenger jet and blames Russia for supplying the rebels with equipment able to do so. Russia and the rebels blame Ukrainian government forces for the attack on the airliner. Last weekend, the EU added another 15 individuals and 18 entities to its growing sanctions list targeting Russians linked to the separatist uprising in eastern Ukraine. The International Monetary Fund last week cut its 2014 global growth forecast to 3.4 percent from 3.7 percent, in part because of the Ukraine crisis, and warned that sanctions against Russia would hurt Europe. Those economies "that have very active and direct trade links with Russia, particularly in Eastern and Central Europe and Central Asia," would be worst affected, it said. In 2013, EU-Russia trade was worth 336 billion euros ($451 billion), with Moscow running a trade surplus of nearly 87 billion euros. With reporting from AFP, "The Wall Street Journal," and BBC. FREE AppDownload
