On October 10, 2002, after a 30-month selloff caused by the dot-com bust and the 9/11 attacks, the Nasdaq composite finally hit rock bottom. I was there. It closed that day at 1108, a 78% drop from the market peak in March 2000. For many investors who bought technology stocks in the late 90s, the damage was even worse than the Nasdaq showed. The best-performing US stock of the bubble, EMC, which still led an industry under no threat of obsolescence, had fallen 95%. For financial advisers, those catastrophic losses were almost incomprehensible. I spent months stupefied by the carnage in my clients' holdings, asking myself over and over again: What have I done? It was a turning point in my life and the market's, and it led me to an inescapable conclusion. By failing so to anticipate or mitigate the effect of the crash, my employer and almost every other brokerage firm had proven themselves and their entire business model to be useless.   In the years before the crash, my co-workers and I were told that the substantial annual premium our venerable firm required to manage assets was justified, because we delivered even more: great returns during bull markets and solid defensive advice before bear markets arrived. In the wake of the "tech wreck," I had a lot of time to think about the advice we had given before, during, and after the downturn. At the beginning of the bust, our advice was consistent, albeit trite. We had daily data points and interminable white papers to support a strategy (whose ulterior motives were patent): "You'll look back on these days as the buying opportunity of a lifetime"....."It's only a loss if you sell"..... "These are high-quality stocks and they're on sale right now." But in the summer of 2002, just a few months before the Nasdaq bottomed out, we changed course. The firm's Chief Investment Strategist decided, more than two years into a bear market, that the severity of growth- and tech-stock losses would take years to repair. Clients should sell them and buy more attractive publicly traded stocks. It was a cruel joke, selling at the bottom of the bottom of the bust, and it crystallized a series of intuitions slowly building in me over years. Active management almost never delivers value. Flickr / Alex ProimosAccording to Dolan (not pictured here) volatility is the only thing clients can expect in their annual returns. The only thing that the well-heeled clients of the nation's best investment firms can expect is volatility in their annual returns, higher trading fees, and slower bottom line growth for their accounts. The same goes for the millions of shareholders in actively traded mutual funds.   While it is not too hard to outperform the major stock market indexes for a year, the chances of doing that for many years, let alone an investor's lifetime, are minute. The true growth factor is minimizing the volatility of annual returns and avoiding the steep fees cleverly obscured by actively managed funds. 'Expense ratio' is the fund industry euphemism for fees. That's just what you pay for the privilege of having advisers lose your money. Expense ratio excludes one of the largest such expenses: trading costs. To determine a fund's trading costs, a shareholder must ask for a 'Statement of Additional Information.' There is one remedy to the poor growth that comes from chasing performance: a globally diversified portfolio spread across many asset classes, constructed entirely of low-cost ETFs. The views expressed herein are not intended to serve as a forecast, a guarantee of future results, investment recommendations or an offer to buy or sell securities by FutureAdvisor. Differences in account size, timing of transactions and market conditions prevailing at the time of investment may lead to different results, and clients may lose money. Past performance is not indicative of future results. This article originally appeared at FutureAdvisor.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
