*Stock markets tend to deliver above-average gains in the last two weeks of the year, a phenomenon known as the Santa Claus Rally. *However, there a few risks to watch this year prompted by the Greek election, the West Coast port strike, and the fading energy sector boom. *Overall, we believe these issues aren’t enough to derail the momentum in global stock markets as we head into 2015. Stock markets have historically delivered above-average gains in the last two weeks of the year, a phenomenon known as the Santa Claus Rally. However, not all may be merry for global markets this year. There are some risks to watch out for that may result in volatility in the coming weeks. The Santa Claus Rally has been pretty consistent in boosting markets across the globe. All of the world’s major stock markets have posted better than average returns in the last two weeks of the year over the last 20 years. Depending on the market, this holiday-season bonus could be as much as one and a half percentage points. For 2014 to date, stock markets around the world produced an average weekly gain of 0.23%. Santa Claus Rally: Spreading cheer around the worldAmount by which the last and second to last week of the year outperformed the average week of the year over the past 20 years. Charles Schwab “Father Christmas give us some money” This 1977 song by The Kinks might well refer to the outsize gains delivered by the United Kingdom’s FTSE 100 Index, home to the strongest and most consistent holiday gains among developed country stock markets. The Santa Claus Rally in the United States’ S&amp;P 500 Index hasn't been quite so generous. So how is this year shaping up? That may depend on some potential areas of risk. Risks to watch Here are some events to watch out for that could put coal in investors’ stockings this holiday. Just the beginning? Oil Price (West Texas Intermediate) and Baker Hughes total rig count with 18-week lag. Charles Schwab An uptick in volatility The combination of these issues may introduce some volatility into the thinly traded holiday sessions for stocks. However, we believe these issues aren’t enough to derail the momentum in global stock markets as we head into 2015. I hope this enhanced your understanding of the Santa Claus Rally. This article originally appeared at Charles Schwab.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
