Rusty Clark/FlickrWashington's new rules aimed at stopping US companies from fleeing high corporate tax rates at home by acquiring foreign companies have succeeded in derailing a pharmaceuticals tie-up. Salix Pharmaceuticals, based in North Carolina, has abandoned its deal with Italy's Cosmo, citing a "changed political environment," in a move that could raise questions for other pending deals. The American company had announced plans to pay $2.7 billion in stock for Cosmo's Irish subsidiary in July in a deal that would allow Salix to move its tax base abroad in a practice known as inversion. But Carolyn Logan, boss of Salix, said the Obama administration's recent crackdown on inversion deals, which introduced a string of measures to make the tax benefits less attractive, had raised too many questions. "The changed political environment has created more uncertainty regarding the potential benefits we expected to achieve," she said. Cosmo boss Alessandro Della Cha said the termination of the deal would not hurt his company. "The deal with Salix showed the potential of three products of ours for US," he said. "The development path of the pipeline continued in the meantime, so this termination has no effect on value creation." Salix will pay Cosmo a breakup fee of $25 million. America last month took its first concrete steps to curb tax inversion, following months of controversy over a rising tide of what President Barack Obama branded "unpatriotic" deals. The rules are designed to make “tax inversion” schemes less financially attractive, and they apply to all deals that have not yet been finalised. They include a ban on so-called hopscotch loans, a practice in which loans made by the foreign entity to the US parent are classified as overseas property and therefore not taxed as a US dividend. This accounting trick can create significant savings in an inverted company, so its prohibition was thought to be one of the most punitive measures from Washington. Salix's termination of the deal could raise questions for other pending deals like Chicago-based AbbVie's takeover of London-listed Shire. However analysts have pointed out that this deal could yield significant tax savings even without the traditional benefits of inversion. FREE AppDownload
