REUTERS/China DailyShipping containers are seen piled up at a port in Qingdao, Shandong province December 10, 2013. Globalization’s impact on trade used to be relatively straightforward: developed countries outsourced production to low-wage economies in return for cheap goods. Yet as emerging economies develop a robust middle class and gain more access to digital technologies, cross-border exchanges between countries are becoming more complex. They’re also growing at a dizzying pace. In 2012, cross-border flows of goods, services and finance totaled $26 trillion, or 36 percent of global gross domestic product, according to an April report by the McKinsey Global Institute entitled “Global Flows in a Digital Age.” That proportion was 1.5x higher than it was in 1990, according to McKinsey, which estimates that it could climb to as high as 49 percent, or $85 trillion, by 2025. That increased cross-border trade holds out tremendous opportunities for the global economy, offering countries the opportunity to profit more from their comparative advantages while at the same time facilitating the introduction of new innovations to their domestic markets. The Institute estimates that cross-border flows add as much as $450 billion every year to global GDP. Much of the increase in flows to and from developing countries over the past two decades can be attributed to China, India and Brazil becoming mainstays of global trade. Overall, the emerging world’s share of total flows has nearly tripled since 1990, reaching 38 percent in 2012. Flows between emerging markets accounted for more than half of that amount – $4.4 trillion, or 24 percent of the global total, up from just $198 billion, or 6 percent, twenty years ago. That said, even the top developing markets remain far behind their developed counterparts when it comes to global trade. Only one of the 15 most connected economies in the world — Russia — is an emerging one. Malaysia, which ranks 18th, has flows that are just one-seventh that of first place Germany. What’s interesting, according to McKinsey, is that the much-heralded rise of the emerging market middle class won’t necessarily translate into an even larger piece of the global trade pie. Why is that? Because worldwide flows that transmit ideas and expertise are increasing faster than more traditional exchanges of labor, capital and resources. Yet it is precisely these “knowledge-intensive” flows that are the developing world’s weakest link—emerging markets account for only one-third of the world total. That’s mainly because emerging economies are lagging in flows of data and communications, accounting for only 24 percent of cross-border Internet traffic. Of the 20 countries considered to have the best broadband penetration, only three are developing. “There really is a digital divide,” says Susan Lund, a partner at the Institute and co-author of the report. “We have to shift our thinking about Internet connectivity.” Policymakers in emerging markets could be excused for thinking that they have had more pressing matters to deal with of late, in particular the debt and equity outflows sparked by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to pare back its large-scale asset buying program. Yet while volatile bond flows have caused significant currency fluctuations, they only represent 20 percent of overall capital flows into emerging markets, compared with 58 percent accounted for by foreign direct investment, according to McKinsey. Global financial flows also have also fallen 70 percent since the financial crisis, thereby reducing their relative importance in global trade. It’s high time then, says Lund, for officials in emerging markets to enact policy that stimulates knowledge-intensive flows. Such exchanges include goods produced with highly skilled labor—such as semiconductors, computers, pharmaceuticals and automobiles—as well as business services such as accounting, law and engineering. Policymakers can encourage this by boosting telecommunications infrastructure and by beefing up educational programs to improve the supply of skilled labor. “Policymakers,” the report says, “need to become much more thoughtful about the increasing dominance of knowledge-intensive goods and services, the torrent of data that is transforming cross-border activity, and the economic promise of digitization.” That, in turn, would attract more foreign direct investment to the developing world. There’s room for growth: in 2010, the 100 largest companies headquartered in developed economies obtained just 17 percent of their revenues from emerging markets, according to McKinsey, despite the fact that those countries accounted for 36 percent of global GDP. Boosting their presence wouldn’t be an altruistic endeavor either: growing consumer demand in the developing world represents a huge opportunity for multinationals to grow their bottom line. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
