Three European foreign ministers appear to have hammered out a peace deal to end the bloody struggle between government and opposition forces that has claimed at least 75 lives since Tuesday. All night talks in which the foreign ministers of Poland, France and Germany shuttled between the presidential administration and Ukraine's main opposition leaders has resulted in "an agreement on settlement of the crisis", the presidency said in a statement on Friday morning. But neither the opposition nor the EU trio immediately confirmed the agreement, of which no detail was given. A tweet from Radoslaw Sikorski, the Polish foreign minister, on Friday morning made no mention of the reported deal, saying only: "After negotiations through the night, talks ended at 7.20". The German Foreign Office tweeted that after "very difficult negotiations throughout the night", the parties were taking a break "to continue talks later on". "Negotiations on the settlement of the political crisis in Ukraine between President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych, leaders of the opposition, EU and Russian representatives have finished," a statement posted on the presidential website announced. "The parties have agreed to initial the Agreement on the Settlement of Crisis. The signing of the document is expected at 12:00 in the Presidential Administration". Polish President Donald Tusk said on Thursday night that Mr Yanukovych had agreed to early presidential elections this year - a key demand of the protesters that he has previously resisted. But it is also unclear whether mainstream opposition leaders will be able to sell a deal to protesters on the street, many of whom say they will only be satisfied by Mr Yanukovych's immediate departure. The opposition camp in Kiev's independence square was largely peaceful on Friday morning, the quiet broken only by the intermittent bang of fireworks, a day after a gun battle in which dozens of people were killed by police snipers. On Thursday, riot police were captured on video shooting from a rooftop at demonstrators in the central plaza, also known as the Maidan. Protesters hurled petrol bombs and paving stones to drive the security forces off a corner of the square the police had captured in battles that began two days earlier. The health ministry said 75 people had been killed since Tuesday afternoon, which meant at least 47 died in Thursday's clashes. That was by far the worst violence since Ukraine emerged from the crumbling Soviet Union 22 years ago. Mr Yanukovych's position was looking increasingly difficult, especially after the resignation of Lieutenant-General Yuri Dumansky, deputy head of the armed forces general staff. "The armed forces of Ukraine are being drawn into a civil conflict. This could be the cause of a large number of deaths of civilians and servicemen," Lt-Gen Dumansky told Channel 5 television. "I have decided to tender my resignation to avoid an escalation and bloodshed."  FREE AppDownload
