It does not take a Ph.D. to see that we may be witnessing a big bang in inflation. The popular theory that accelerating price inflation in the U.S. would eventually be detected has gone many years with little evidence. However, signs that inflation has probably bottomed are now showing up everywhere. LPL Financial Now that evidence has emerged that inflation has bottomed, the question is how much prices inflate. All of that quantitative easing (QE), or Federal Reserve (Fed) bond buying from the banks, is potential “energy” to fuel inflation. While thus far it has largely remained in the form of reserves on bank balance sheets, bank lending is finally beginning to reaccelerate—a necessary driver for growth in the money supply. This is an intended outcome for the Fed. The Fed is focused on lifting inflation and sees it as important for achieving sustainable growth. Last week Fed Chair Yellen said: “A persistent bout of very low inflation carries other risks as well. With the federal funds rate currently near its lower limit, lower inflation translates into a higher real value for the federal funds rate, limiting the capacity of monetary policy to support the economy. Further, with longer-term inflation expectations anchored near two percent in recent years, persistent inflation well below this expected value increases the real burden of debt for households and firms, which may put a drag on economic activity.” Or, as Sheldon might put it: Bazinga! LPL FinancialThe early stages of accelerating inflation have historically helped fuel economic growth as consumers begin to expect price increases and may stop delaying purchases. The early stages of inflation picking up have also been good for stocks. Examining periods since 1950, the valuation of the stock market measured by the S&amp;P 500 trailing price-to-earnings ratio (PE) tends to be higher when the Consumer Price Index rises above the current 1.5% [Figure 2]. In fact, S&amp;P 500 PEs tend to be a whole point higher than the current 16.8 when inflation is between 1.5 and 2.5%, a range some signs are pointing for the coming year. Only as inflation rises above 3.5% has it corresponded with lower PEs. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
