If there were a way to tip them a small amount of money for the service they provide, I definitely would—in the same way that we give a $1 or $2 tip to the valet guy when our vehicle comes back unscathed, a small Bitcoin tip for Twitter's unsung heroes would be a cool thing to do. And now you can. I was playing around earlier today with the remarkably barebones Tippercoin, a free service that authenticates your identity using Twitter's API, allowing any user to seamlessly send a Bitcoin-denominated tip to another person with a Twitter username. It notifies both of you via a public tweet when the funds have been successfully sent (nice bragging rights for the recipient!).  I have around 25,000 followers, so I obviously could only give out a small number of tips on Twitter before running out, but today's experiment yielded intriguing results: 1) People want to receive Bitcoin. 2) I really enjoyed doing it, it felt good to give back to 'Internet strangers' for great content. Although I'm not in a financial position to do something like this on a daily basis, it would be cool if other bitcoiners got into the habit of tipping for great content. For example, one of the people I chose to tip was Tara Stiles, a New York yoga instructor who frequently shares great guided yoga videos for free on YouTube. And I also tipped Laura LaRue, an EDM singer whose work I've enjoyed listening to for free.  If this usage case is widely adopted by others on Twitter, it could provide meaningful additional revenue for independent content creators like Tara and Laura. My tips were small, but multiplied across their thousands of fans, that'd be something significant.  While some others covering digital currency have been drawn to Bitcoin's admittedly fascinating potential to one day replace credit cards and PayPal, I'm more drawn to the usage cases it enables today that simply aren't possible with a credit card or PayPal account—usage cases like today's experiment with social micro-tipping. As you may know, the merchant processing fee schedules for credit card transactions typically make small online tips non-viable. In a year or two, it is easy to see how micro-tipping could be integrated more fully into the social experience. For example, next to the "Like" button on Facebook, there could be a "Tip with Bitcoin" button. As the social value of Likes, Favorites, and Retweets diminishes over time (it's not exciting to get a Like anymore), novelty could be brought back by attaching real money to online praise. A Like you forget about a minute later, but a 0.002 BTC tip? That's real money.  If it leads to further engagement and more content creation, I see no reason why the large social networks shouldn't take the idea Tippercoin pioneered and run with it.  Find me on Twitter and over at http://davidseaman.net. This article originally appeared at David Seaman Online.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
