Flickr / Federal ReserveA Federal Open Market Committee meeting in the 1970s.Last week's weak GDP report, strong spending report, and mixed jobs report have given economists and policymakers plenty to think about. While there isn't much on the economic data calendar, several key Federal Reserve officials will be speaking this week. On Tuesday, Fed Governor Jeremy Stein will speak about monetary policy communication; on Wednesday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen will testify to Congress about the economic outlook; on Thursday, Philly Fed President Charles Plosser will speak about monetary policy  communication and transparency; and on Friday, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher will speak about the limits of monetary policy. Everyone will be listening for clues on where monetary policy might be headed next. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Last week, the Dow Jones Industrial Average booked a record-high close. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500 ended the week just 16 points from its all-time intraday high of 1,897. Meanwhile, the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) continues to be very low. In a new research note, JP Morgan's Jan Loeys warns that the low VIX is by no means an all-clear. From Loeys: "Most dangerous to markets is that low volatility is not the same as low risk. It can be, as fewer shocks depress volatility. But markets can also move in tight trading ranges if the shocks hitting them neatly offset each other. And that is probably what has happened this year. The continued lack of a yield on cash remains a powerful stimulant for financial assets. But economic activity data have seriously disappointed so far this year. By our estimates, Q1 global growth is only coming in near 2%, well down from the 3% we expected at the start of the year. We have kept our growth projections for the rest of the year largely unchanged, balancing off the possibility that Q1 weakness was just due to temporary factors — suggesting upside from Q2 on — and the possibility that something more fundamental is going wrong in the world economy." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
