Wikimedia CommonsWhile politicians and policy makers may disagree about how to capitalize on the recent U.S. oil and gas boom, they do share enthusiasm for what it may bring: energy independence. But since conflict broke out between Russia and Ukraine last month, an increasingly vocal cohort in Washington has been touting another idea: energy diplomacy. The country has long been isolationist when it comes to its own energy resources — crude exports have been banned since the 70s — but some now see the opportunity to use the fruits of the boom as a new and powerful foreign policy tool. Were the U.S. to export sizeable amounts of natural gas to Europe, the thinking goes, it could lessen the continent’s reliance on Russia for energy and weaken its regional influence. Influential lawmakers such as House Speaker John Boehner have called for accelerated plans to export liquefied natural gas (LNG) while also repealing the ban on shipping U.S. crude abroad. “The ability to turn the tables and put the Russian leader in check lies right beneath our feet, in the form of vast supplies of natural energy,” Boehner wrote in the Wall Street Journal in March. The argument gained even more weight last week, when Russia nearly doubled the price of gas it sends to Ukraine. Timely editorials or no, quick increases in U.S. exports of any sort are unlikely. For starters, the U.S. isn’t even in a position to increase exports of gas. Current export capacity wouldn’t support it, and new LNG terminals aren’t scheduled to come online until next year. Moreover, any hope of offering gas to Europe at lower prices than Russia’s may be a non-starter anyway. It costs money to ship gas, and unless the U.S. wants to literally give it away, those countries Washington might seek to influence may not be able to afford the prices required for an economic rationale as well as a political one. Politics will also come into play. The mere suggestion of exporting oil raises a host of thorny questions, starting with whether doing so would cause the price of domestic gasoline to rise or fall. And then there would be the inevitable criticisms: the U.S. has long chastised countries for engaging in petro-politics, such as when it condemned Hugo Chavez’ shipments of subsidized oil to regional allies like Cuba. All that said, the longer-term prospects of the idea are better than at first glance. Especially if you consider that lawmakers’ motivations are as much about economic considerations as they are about political ones, says Thomas Marchetti, energy equities strategist at Credit Suisse. While the approval process for exporting gas is tied in the requisite amounts of red tape, dozens of producers have already applied for licenses to build export terminals. And while most crude exports have been prohibited since the Energy Policy Conservation Act was enacted in the 1970s to protect the U.S. from price shocks, the dramatic increase in U.S. production has decreased its historical reliance on imported oil. U.S. daily crude output rose 15 percent last year to 7.5 million barrels and is on track to hit 9.5 million by 2016, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. There’s no question that there’s oil to sell. The debate is over the merits of selling it. U.S. refiners have enjoyed growing profits as increasing but captive U.S. supply has lowered the benchmark West Texas Intermediate price of U.S crude relative to Brent, the global benchmark, and a repeal of the ban would likely raise the price of the American crude they process. Environmental groups are also opposed, arguing that an increase in exports would encourage more fracking, which they believe causes pollution and potential water contamination. A third group of opponents worries that exporting crude could increase domestic gasoline prices. Both Marchetti and Jan Stuart, head of energy commodities research at Credit Suisse, say that last worry is misplaced. Their argument: Europe’s refineries are operating below capacity because they can’t get enough of the light crude they’re designed to process. As a result, European demand for imported refined products — including gasoline — has pushed those prices up. So the export of crude might actually lower U.S. gasoline prices in the long term. That fact notwithstanding, the mere suggestion of a possible increase in gas prices – whether or not it’s likely — could still make changing export laws politically untenable. “If Congress has to get involved, the chances of that happening are close to zero,” says Stuart. In an effort to circumvent a possible Congressional dead end, policymakers and lawmakers are exploring changing trade regulations enforced by the Commerce Department. There’s precedent for such maneuvering: U.S. producers can already export crude to Canada because of a free trade agreement. Other U.S. trading partners, such as South Korea, Mexico, Chile and Israel could theoretically get equal treatment, Stuart says. And that’s when politics sneak back in: consider South Korea, which has no domestic oil production, and therefore relies heavily on the Middle East for imports. If Washington starts to think that way, similar trade pacts with the European Union and Japan might not be far behind either. The most likely first step towards increased exports would involve a product called lease condensate. Under current rules, condensate is classified as crude oil because it comes directly out of a well as a liquid. The industry, on the other hand, doesn’t think of it as crude because the ultra-light liquid resembles a refined product. Lawmakers such as Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski, who sits on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, have argued that the Commerce Department should therefore reclassify condensates as an exportable product. In doing so, she has joined a growing chorus. Its refrain: the era of U.S.-as-crude-exporter could soon be upon us. FREE AppDownload
