REUTERSA worker wields a hammer at a demolition site in front of new residential buildings in Hefei, Anhui province, October 19, 2013.After a decade of riding on the back of China with little concern about falling off, recent data has many economists worried that the ride is about to get much bumpier. It’s perhaps not surprising that China is important not just to Australia’s economy, but the whole world’s. But just how important it has become is surprising. Back at the start of this century the Chinese economy was around 11% the size of the US; now it is nearly 60% the size of the US. But despite that massive growth, it wasn’t until 2007 that China became more important than the US to world economic growth. Before 2007, the US was easily the biggest contributor to the growth of the world’s economy. In 2004, for example, the world economy grew by 12.8% (nominal terms) to which the US contributed two percentage points. By way of context, the UK and Japan that year contributed 0.9 percentage points, France 0.7 and Germany 0.8. China also contributed 0.8 percentage points. In 2007, the world’s GDP grew by a similar 12.7%, but this time China was the biggest contributor with 1.6 percentage points worth, and the US contributing just 1.2. And since then, China has remained the biggest driver of the world’s economic growth: To put it in even more stark terms, from 2007 to 2013, the world’s economy grew by 31% and China contributed nearly a third of that, with 10.1 percentage points worth. Plucky little Australia with 1 percentage point chipped in for 3.2% of the world’s growth in the period – not bad given that we only account for around 2% of the size of world’s economy: So clearly, China is important, and not just to Australia. Indeed, the RBA governor, Glenn Stevens, last week noted that China is the first or second biggest trading partner for “nearly 50 economies, including the United States, European Union, Japan, Russia and Canada”. So it is not surprising that economists around the world are looking anxiously towards Beijing for signs of either economic health or concern. And recently, signs of concern are more prevalent. Firstly, we need some context – no one expects China to grow at the speed it did from 2002 to 2010: The Chinese government doesn’t even want growth that fast; instead it wants a more steady, and hopefully sustainable growth of around 7.5% rather than the 10% plus annual growth it averaged from 2002 to 2010. But the concern is whether or not China can achieve even this level of growth, or whether a fall is about to occur. Among the signs we can look at that have the biggest impact on Australia are Chinese manufacturing and construction – the better they are performing the more they will demand all that metal we have lying under our ground. The latest Chinese manufacturing purchasing managers index has been good, if not spectacular. The latest measure came in at 51.1, a slight fall from the previous month’s 51.7. A score above 50 means manufacturing is generally expanding; below means it is contracting: Similarly, China’s annual growth of industrial output, while well below pre-GFC growth of over 14%, is steady at around 9%: So where does the concern come from? Housing. In the past few months there have been a number of worrying signs that the booming Chinese real estate market is about to burst. For example, the Wall Street Journal recently reported a Chinese study that found in 2013 22.4% of houses in China’s urban areas were vacant – up from 20.6% in 2011. This suggests a fairly serious glut of houses in China. And when there is an over-supply of something, the price for that item inevitably falls. In July, monthly residential house prices rose in only six of the 70 major Chinese cities. If we look at the growth of residential housing prices across five of the major Chinese cities, the drop off in prices is clear to see: The decline has also occurred in commercial buildings, with the growth of sales in commercial buildings for the first seven months of this year 8.4% below what was achieved last year: Similarly, the growth rate of investment in real estate development has dropped off. This time last year it was growing at around 19% year on year; now it is down to 13.7%. For Australia, the real impact of this is in the price of our exports – especially iron ore. If you aren’t building as many buildings as you used to, you don’t need as much steel. The problem, of course, is that on the back of a decade of mining investment, we now have a large supply of iron ore to export. And when there is a large increase in supply of a good without a similar large increase in demand, the price of that good falls – and that is exactly what has happened to iron ore prices: Since January 2013 iron ore prices have fallen 43% in US dollars, and 48% in Australian dollars. Since just December last year, the price has fallen 37% from US$135 a tonne to US$85.70 a tonne – the lowest since September 2009. This has a number of effects. Firstly it makes it tougher for our mining companies to make a profit. Analysts suggest that for BHP to break even they need a price of US$51 a tonne. And it has been reported that they are about to increase exports from 225 million tonnes to 290mt. But while they’ll continue to make a profit, it’s worth noting that if the price of iron ore is at the December price of US$135 a tonne exporting 225mt would make BHP roughly $18.9bn in profit; but if they exported 290mt at $US85 a tonne, they’re looking like only making a profit of around $9.86bn. So yes, they’re making a profit – but less than they would have expected 12 months or even just six months ago. And that hits our tax revenues. It means even if the volume of exports increase, the amount of income being generated may not – as occurred in the June quarter: The volume of exports increased 1.3% in the June quarter, but the actual dollar amount of exports fell 0.6%. And so we keep looking to China, hoping their real estate market will hold up, and that their demand for our exports will continue to grow strongly. But a collapse in the Chinese market would also have another sting – if Chinese real estate investors can’t achieve growth in their own markets they will start looking in even greater numbers for value elsewhere – places like New York, Toronto ... and Sydney. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
