CBS News/screenshotA mystery man only known as “Secret Santa” has given thousands of dollars to the Jackson County Sheriff’s Department for officers to disperse to strangers in need this holiday season.It’s unlike any sting operation in the country — and it’s all orchestrated by a mystery man. Every year around Christmas, an anonymous, wealthy businessman hands out about $100,000 to strangers, according to the CBS Evening News. This year, however, he’s turned to the Jackson County Sheriff’s Department for help. The man, known only to law enforcement personnel as “Secret Santa,” gave officers earlier this month stacks of $100 bills to give away to those that the cops determined needed it most. “Let’s start with a thousand,” the mystery man said as he handed each officer cash to disperse to strangers in the community. The cops were then sent out into the Kansas City area, targeting those they thought were in need of some holiday magic. CBS News/screenshot“Merry Christmas,” one deputy said as he handed money to an individual he had just pulled over. “You’re kidding. Oh my God, no,” the driver replied in disbelief. A Jackson County Sheriff’s Department officer holds a $100 bill given to him by a mystery man known as “Secret Santa” to provide to a stranger in need. (Image source: Instagram/CBS Evening News) One driver, Jessica Rodriguez, was moved to tears. “How you doing, m’am?” the deputy asked her after pulling her over. “I’m good until you pulled me over,” she sternly answered. “Okay, well, on behalf of Secret Santa, he wants you to have this, OK?” the deputy said. The stunned mother of three expressed her gratitude toward the officer, telling him that she “wasn’t going to be able to get my kids anything” for Christmas. “Well, I hope you may be able to get your kids something with it,” he replied. The “Secret Santa” behind the scenes told the CBS Evening News that he wants officers to get “joy” out of being the bearers of good news for a change. “You know, as tough as they are they have hearts that are bigger than the world,” he said. — Follow Oliver Darcy (@oliverdarcy) on Twitter FREE AppDownload
