 Here's something people associate with bigwig CEOs: golf.  But there's a problem: If your company's CEO golfs a lot, your company is probably underperforming. A paper from Lee Biggerstaff at Miami University (Ohio), David C. Cicero at the University of Alabama, and Andy Puckett at the University of Tennessee published in August (which we were first alerted to by Bloomberg's Matt Levine) looks at the relationship between CEOs who play lots of golf and the performance of those CEOs' companies. The findings are not in favor of the golfers.  The authors said they were seeking to learn how company performance related to CEOs spending time away from their companies. They settled on golf as a proxy for leisure, or a way to measure how much the CEO was "shirking" responsibilities at the company.  The authors write that they chose golf because "a plurality of CEOs list golf as their preferred outlet for leisure and because golf commands a significant time commitment." To conduct this research, the authors hand-collected (!) golfing records for 363 S&amp;P 1500 CEOs from a USGA database containing records for each round recorded in the system by golfers from 2008 to 2012.  Here are some of the highlights of the paper's findings: Among the other choice bits of info from the report is that Jimmy Cayne, the former CEO of Bear Stearns, spent 10 of 21 working days away from the office playing golf or bridge in July 2007, the same month that two Bear Stearns hedge funds collapsed. (That info is gleaned from a report in The Wall Street Journal by Kate Kelly.) As we've highlighted recently in writing about the "revolving door" issue that affects some Wall Street analysts, numerous things seem weird about Wall Street or the business world but are sort of hard to prove.  This paper takes steps toward proving something lots of people might have a hunch about. If you went up to someone on the street and asked what a CEO has to do, it doesn't seem unlikely that you'd get a response like "play golf with clients." And while on some level entertaining clients — or keeping clients happy, or making appearances on behalf of your company — is part of what comes with being a CEO, playing golf almost every other day is (probably) not in the job description.  But if you play lots of golf and then get fired as a CEO for doing so, I guess you could just go play more golf.  So, win-win? We've embedded the whole paper below. FREE AppDownload
