REUTERS/Jason ReedA member of the audience takes a picture as Janet Yellen, President Barack Obama's nominee to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve, prepares to testify at her U.S. Senate Banking Committee confirmation hearing in Washington, November 14, 2013. Like many bank analysts who covered U.S. monetary policy in the early days of Alan Greenspan, Dana Saporta logged her fair share of late nights at the office. She stayed after hours to pore over the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and map out the bank’s possible moves as best she could. It was a truly laborious task at the time, in part because the Fed gave no scheduled press briefings or statements and “guidance” regarding its future intentions was nonexistent. Outright secrecy was the chosen policy for central bankers, which made following the bank quite a challenge. “We were trying to determine the stance of monetary policy, because we were never told what it was,” says Saporta, currently a director of U.S. economics research at Credit Suisse. That all changed in February 1994, when former chairman Greenspan’s board issued its first-ever statement. A terse, three-paragraph memo informed the market that the Fed had just tightened for the first time in five years. While miniscule compared with today’s lengthy statements, the central bank had nevertheless fired the starting gun for the era of transparency. “Fed-watching as a profession was dead,” says Saporta. “After that, there was much less appetite for that type of work because the Fed would just tell us when there was a change in policy.” Fast-forward two decades and that appetite is back. Today, the Fed’s communication isn’t lacking—it’s just verbose and confusing. To be fair, economic and market conditions are complicated in a post-recession world, as are the tools policymakers are using to navigate it. But lately, the more the Fed tries to explain itself, the more elusive a consensus on its intentions seems to be. To hammer home the point, Credit Suisse recently created a graph showing that as the years have passed and the Fed’s total assets grown, Fed verbiage has increased right along with them. The average number of words used in policy statements has risen fourfold in just six years—from less than 200 in 2008 to over 800 this year. In a report entitled “Revamping the Policy Kluge,” Saporta labels the unwieldy statements a “kluge,” or “an ill-assorted collection of parts assembled to fulfill a particular purpose.” Just as she does on Fed policy itself, newly appointed Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen has the opportunity to change course on its communication inflation if she so chooses. And in theory, there’s no better person for the job. In her previous position as Vice Chair at the Fed, Yellen oversaw the communications subcommittee, where she spearheaded former chairman Ben Bernanke’s vision of greater transparency. On her watch, the bank started holding post-meeting press conferences, giving forecasts of the likely timing of future policy moves, and introducing a new form of forward guidance that was tied to economic indicators such an unemployment. “A growing body of research and experience demonstrates that clear communication is itself a vital tool for increasing the efficacy and reliability of monetary policy,” Yellen said in a 2012 speech. “In fact, the challenges facing our economy in the wake of the financial crisis have made clear communication more important than ever before.” Unfortunately, Yellen’s first chance to put that transparency pledge into action herself didn’t go so well. In recent months, the Fed had become uneasy with its previously stated intentions—so-called “forward guidance”—regarding the future course of monetary policy. Policymakers had promised to keep interest rates at near-zero levels at least until the unemployment rate dipped below 6.5 percent. But in February, as the jobless rate sat at 6.7 percent, just above the threshold, the Fed’s board had nevertheless concluded was still nowhere near a hike cycle because of flat wage growth and a fragile economic recovery. This quantitative forward guidance, in other words, confused more than it elucidated. And so, after announcing a further $10 billion in tapering of the their large-asset purchases at their March 18-19 meeting, officials also did away with concrete policy-change thresholds such as the 6.5 percent unemployment rate. In determining how long to keep rates put, they said, the bank indicated in its latest policy statement that it would instead assess “a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments.” The problem: the Fed didn’t simply modify its guidance, but also the way in which it was communicated. The policymakers’ written statement was clear enough: they carefully reassured markets that their intentions regarding an eventual rate hike hadn’t changed since previous meetings. But Yellen’s ensuing press briefing turned that painstakingly crafted message on its head. Asked how much time might elapse between the end of quantitative easing and the start of rate hikes, her answer was both imprecise and unexpected. “So, the language that we use in this statement is ‘considerable period,’” Yellen answered. “So, I – I, you know, this is the kind of term it’s hard to define. But, you know, it probably means something on the order of around six months or that type of thing.” So much for clarity and consistency. Yellen was suggesting a possible Fed hike as soon as the second quarter of next year, a full three to six months earlier than what the market had been anticipating. Yellen’s comments sent stocks and bonds falling, with the Dow dropping more than 1 percent before recovering some of its losses by the end of the trading day. “While Yellen tried to convince markets that the FOMC’s policy intentions differ little from three months earlier, she undermined her own efforts by suggesting, however tentatively, that the Fed would consider hiking rates as soon as six months after the end of quantitative easing,” Saporta wrote in a March 21 report. “This ‘six-month’ comment quickly overshadowed the FOMC’s newly worded, qualitative forward guidance.” Many analysts like Saporta assume Yellen didn’t intend her outlook to be as binding as it sounded. After all, the change in policy was about freeing the Fed from a specific unemployment milepost; it would seem preposterous to replace it with something even more specific—a date on the calendar. Still, its market and media impact have made the slip-up hard to ignore. Accordingly, Credit Suisse moved up its forecast for the first hike to the fourth quarter of 2015 from the first quarter of 2016. As for Yellen’s communication, the press conference fallout illustrates the challenges of bringing transparency to central banking. To stay safe next time, she could convey a more flexible policy stance or simply sidestep those types of questions. Or she could turn back the clock and just avoid the press altogether. But of course, there’d be no transparency in that. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
