REUTERS/Danish SiddiquiA stockbroker speaks on phone while trading at a terminal during the Diwali special trading session celebrating the annual Hindu festival of lights at the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) in Mumbai.The world market rally continued last week with six of the eight indexes on my watch list posting gains. Europe led the pack, with Germany's DAX up 5.18%, France's CAC 40 up 3.44% and the UK up 1.45%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng was the big loser with its -2.70% loss. The other negative performer was Japan's Nikkei 225. It's fractional -0.76% decline snapped not only a four-week string of gains, but also four weeks as the top performer. China's Shanghai Composite remains the only index on the watch list in bear territory -- the traditional designation for a 20% decline from an interim high. The index is down 28.36% from its August 2009 peak. See the table inset (lower right) in the chart below. Here is a look at 2014 so far.   Here is a table highlighting the year-to-date index performance, sorted from high to low, along with the 2014 interim highs for the eight indexes. At this point, seven of the eight are positive YTD, up from five last week, with the three European indexes in the red. India's SENSEX and the US's S&amp;P 500 both ended the week with record highs. A Closer Look at the Last Four Weeks The tables below provide a concise overview of performance comparisons over the past four weeks for these eight major indexes. I've also included the average for each week so that we can evaluate the performance of a specific index relative to the overall mean and better understand weekly volatility. The colors for each index name help us visualize the comparative performance over time.  The chart below illustrates the comparative performance of World Markets since March 9, 2009. The start date is arbitrary: The S&amp;P 500, CAC 40 and BSE SENSEX hit their lows on March 9th, the Nikkei 225 on March 10th, the DAX on March 6th, the FTSE on March 3rd, the Shanghai Composite on November 4, 2008, and the Hang Seng even earlier on October 27, 2008. However, by aligning on the same day and measuring the percent change, we get a better sense of the relative performance than if we align the lows.  Click for a larger image A Longer Look Back Here is the same chart starting from the turn of 21st century. The relative over-performance of the emerging markets (Shanghai, Mumbai SENSEX and Hang Seng) up to their 2007 peaks is evident, and the SENSEX remains by far the top performer. The Shanghai, in contrast, formed a perfect Eiffel Tower from late 2006 to late 2009.  Click for a larger image Check back next week for a new update. Note from dshort: I track Germany's DAXK a price-only index, instead of the more familiar DAX index (which includes dividends), for constency with the other indexes, which do not include dividends.  All the indexes are calculated in their local currencies.  This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
