The United States has imposed a number of sanctions on Russia and has taken a stronger and harsher stance than the European Union (EU) simply because Europe would suffer more if it did the same, in our view. The West has held off on true “sectoral” sanctions – applying sanctions to every company in an industry sector. However, should Russia intervene militarily, we would expect that position could change. Sectoral sanctions could cut the Russian economy off from the US dollar-based global financial system, but would be extremely challenging to implement and could cause collateral damage to Western economies, particularly the Eurozone. Sectoral sanctions also could play into Putin’s hands, increasing his control over the oligarchs and their enterprises, resulting in the oligarchs’ moving money outside of Western control, perhaps to China. We could envision an agreement whereby the Ukrainian government agrees to a federal system giving the Russian-speaking areas of the country considerable autonomy. Business on both sides – Ukraine and Russia—should be able to continue despite the conflict. We believe there is considerable trade and investment flow that won’t be interrupted, even with some sanctions. Russia is a major supplier of oil to Germany and the Netherlands in particular, and of natural gas to Western Europe generally. Disruption to energy trade would be in neither side’s interest. It has been our view that Ukraine’s finances, although under pressure, are likely to be supported by the EU, United States and World Bank. There is a possibility of Russia being able to achieve some financial benefits as well, including gas contracts. We have been investing in Russia for a long time, and have found that Russian equities have often presented themselves as potential bargains during various stressful points in time. In our view, this is true even more so today. That said, we believe a steep valuation discount is required in Russia given the current geopolitical risk involved in investing there. We have continued to be interested in long-term opportunities in select companies within Ukraine and Russia and we will continue to monitor the situation. Any future investment decisions that are made in Russia—as in all markets in which we invest—will be made on a bottom-up, stock-by-stock basis resulting from our internal research, which includes an assessment of each stock’s macroeconomic and political risk factors. Our hope is that if there is a resolution of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, it can restore some investor confidence and allow companies to continue doing business in both countries. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » FREE AppDownload
