Flickr/PetraMillennials, the generation in today’s workforce born after 1980, experienced the tech bubble and burst of the 1990s, and entered early adulthood in the wake of the Great Recession. Plagued by massive student loan debt and fear of unemployment, Millennials are intensely conservative when it comes to investments. As savers go, they are a tough group to beat. But Millennials could use some advice when it comes to taking the next steps toward investing for the long term. Lesson 1: There is risk in not taking risk This cautious, risk-averse generation does many things right. Millennials live within their means better than other generations. They have witnessed firsthand the financial losses suffered by their parents, who saw the value of their investment portfolios plummet as a result of the financial downturn of 2008–2009. They watched as jobs were lost and homes went into foreclosure, and they recognized the danger of taking on more debt than they could easily afford to repay. Scarred, Millennials recognize the inherent danger in credit card purchases, and they are willing to live more modestly to protect their nest eggs. Many Millennials prefer to stash cash in bank savings accounts rather than investing in the stock market. When they do explore investment options, they gravitate toward fixed-income and money market funds. Given the horrors they have witnessed in the stock market, who could blame them? This mentality, though, may have dire consequences. Avoiding equities and saving cash in lower yielding, lower risk accounts, instead of taking a chance on higher risk/ return asset classes, is jeopardizing Millennials’ long-term financial security. Consider a reasonable level of investment risk, in multiple asset classes, to position yourself for greater potential wealth accumulation and a more secure financial future. Lesson 2: Start young and invest regularly The younger you are, the longer you have until you retire and need to start tapping into your retirement savings. Starting to save for retirement in early adulthood ensures a longer time horizon for investments to grow. Given the number of wage-earning years Millennials still have ahead of them, they are well-suited to tolerate the roller coaster — the highs and lows of the stock market. And because of their longer time horizon, Millennials can also take full advantage of dollar cost averaging, a historically successful investment strategy designed to avoid the pitfalls of erratic investing patterns. By automatically investing the same amount of money at a certain time interval (typically once a month), rather than trying to time the market, investors buy more shares when prices are low and fewer shares when prices are high. Keep in mind, this strategy may only work when adhered to for the long term. Consider investing early and aggressively to take advantage of the potential benefits of dollar cost averaging and to give your retirement savings a solid start. Lesson 3: Take advantage of retirement savings options Many financial professionals recommend contributing to an employer’s 401(k) plan at least the maximum amount that the employer will match. So if the company matches up to 5%, employees should consider contributing 5% each pay period. Not taking advantage of a company match is like turning down a raise. And remember, there is no harm in contributing more than what an employer will match. An investor interested in saving aggressively for retirement may also consider opening a Roth IRA early in his or her career, since to invest the maximum contribution to a Roth IRA an individual’s annual income must fall below certain thresholds. In 2014, a single taxpayer who earns $114,000 or less is eligible to make the full Roth IRA contribution of $5,500. (Visit irs.gov for more information.) Given Social Security’s uncertain future, you need to be in the driver’s seat to make your dreams of retirement a reality. Read other lessons for Millennials and much more in our award-winning investor newsletter, including features on economic trends, investment opportunities and planning for retirement.   Diversification, asset allocation and dollar cost averaging are all investment strategies. No investment strategy can assure a profit or protect against loss in declining markets FREE AppDownload
