American Apparel American Apparel will get $25 million from investment firm Standard General as part of a deal to help the troubled retailer pay off a $10 million loan, the company announced Wednesday.  The deal will shake up American Apparel's board of directors, forcing five of the seven current members — including CEO Dov Charney — to step down.  The deal comes several weeks after the company's board voted to fire Charney from his position as chief executive. Here are the terms of the deal, in more detail, from the company's release: "-- A reconstitution of the Company's board of directors in which five of the current seven members, including Mr. Charney, will voluntarily step down. The departing directors will be replaced by two new directors, chosen jointly by Standard General and the current board, and three new directors designated by Standard General. All but one of the new directors are expected to be independent directors and unaffiliated with either Standard General or Mr. Charney. The board will continue to be led by its current co-chairmen, David Danziger and Allan Mayer. Mr. Charney will not serve as a board member or be nominated by the Company or Standard General as a board member. -- A continuation of the ongoing investigation into Mr. Charney's alleged misconduct overseen by a newly appointed, independent board committee. Mr. Charney will serve as strategic consultant until the end of the investigation. Based on the findings of the investigation, the committee will determine if it is appropriate for Mr. Charney to serve as CEO or an officer or employee of American Apparel. -- Adoption of a standstill agreement through the Company's 2015 annual meeting that, among other things, prohibits Standard General and Mr. Charney from acquiring any additional shares in American Apparel and limits their vote to no more than one third of the Company's shares on any issue put to stockholders; their remaining shares would be voted proportionately to the vote of other stockholders." FREE AppDownload
