REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiCruise liner Costa Concordia is seen during a refloat operation at Giglio harbour at Giglio Island July 14, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Here Comes Janet Yellen! Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen heads to Congress to give her Semiannual Monetary Policy Report. She will address the Senate Banking Committee today at 10:00 a.m. ET. "Yellen will have little choice but to acknowledge the improvement in the labor market when she testifies next week," said Credit Suisse economists. "With the unemployment rate plunging and with inflation trending higher, some in Congress will press her to explain why exceptionally accommodative monetary policy is still required to reach the Fed’s objectives." Microsoft's Cutting Jobs. "Microsoft Corp. is planning its biggest round of job cuts in five years, as the software maker looks to slim down and integrate Nokia Oyj's handset unit, people with knowledge of the company's plans said," reported Bloomberg's Dina Bass. German Investor Confidence Continues To Slide. Germany's Zew economic expectations index tumbled to 27.1 in July from 29.8 in June. Economists were forecasting a more modest decline to 28.2. "German investors continue to mark down their expectations for the economy, which is now a worrying trend," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "The expectations component of this survey has dropped every single month so far this year, as a sign that investors don’t believe that the benign conditions seen in the past year will last." Market Update. U.S. futures are modestly in the red with Dow futures down 9 points and S&amp;P futures down 2.6 points. In Europe stocks are also down with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.1%, France's CAC 40 down 0.4%, and Germany's DAX down 0.4%. Asia closed higher with Japan's Nikkei up 0.6% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.5%. Get Ready Big Bank Earnings. JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs Group both beat analysts' expectations for Q2 earnings. Also as expected, the banks' trading and mortgage businesses saw sharp declines. June Retail Sales Check. Retail sales climbed by just 0.2% in June, missing expectations for 0.6% growth. Excluding autos and gas, sales climbed 0.4%, which was a hair below the 0.5% expected. Empire Manufacturing Check. Manufacturing activity in the New York area hit a four year high. The Empire State Manufacturing survey index jumped to 25.6 in July from 19.28 in June. Economists were loking for 17.0. Mom And Pop Are Piling Into Stocks. "Individual investors are plowing money back into the U.S. stock market just as professional strategists say gains for this year are over," reported Bloomberg's Lu Wang. "About $100 billion has been added to equity mutual funds and exchange-traded funds in the past year, 10 times more than the previous 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the Investment Company Institute. " Bill Gross Threatened To Quit. Amid turmoil in PIMCO's executive suite after then CEO Mohamed El-Erian's sudden departure earlier this year, management put increasing amounts of pressure on the firm's face Bill Gross. "About three months ago, a group of Pimco senior executives became so concerned about Mr. Gross's dealings with the media that they warned him to stop making public comments they viewed as divisive, according to people familiar with the matter," reported the WSJ's Greg Zuckerman and Kirsten Grind. "Mr. Gross, the face of a firm that manages $1.97 trillion and its star investor, has threatened to quit more than once since Mr. El-Erian's March departure, including after that warning, the people say. " Getting To The Bottom Of CYNK. CYNK Technology, a company with no revenue and no assets, captured everyone's imagination when its penny stock exploded by 25,000% in just a month. Business Insider's Julia La Roche and Hunter Walker were able to track down one of the founders. "A pair of brothers have been tied to the mysterious social networking company ... and one of them has a history of involvement in questionable businesses," they reported. Their names: John and Phil Kueber... FREE AppDownload
