We look at the housing demand/supply balance two ways: Weighing Supply and Demand When a homeowner sells their home and buys another home in the same market, they don't impact supply, since they add 1 and subtract 1 from the market. Detailed analysis may show that they are adding and subtracting supply from different price points and types of homes, but we won't get that detailed in this analysis. What matters to the overall market are the many groups who are: We identified six primary buyers-only categories and eight sellers-only categories. Categories 1 through 6 relate to each other, while categories 7 and 8 (banks and builders) are the big outliers that can cause supply to significantly outweigh demand. Since price appreciation historically exceeds inflation, the 6 buyer categories usually total more than the 8 seller categories. The categories that are currently lower than usual are red, and the categories that are currently higher than usual are blue. John Burns Real Estate ConsultingBuyers Only Sellers Only Let's look at the imbalances of each category:  How It Worked Recently In 2011 through early 2013, prices rose because of: This imbalance tipped the scales back toward more buyers than sellers, and homes began appreciating again. Months of supply (MOS) plunged from 12 to 4.5. When MOS crossed 7 in late 2011, prices shifted from falling to rising.  Last year, rising prices, rising mortgage rates, and reduced confidence all contributed to a reversal in the direction of months of supply, slowing the rate of price appreciation. Looking Forward To project price appreciation, we weigh all the factors described above to form a conclusion. We try to be scientific with our economic growth, housing supply, affordability, and bank sales estimates, but we also have to make qualitative assessments on factors such as investor activity and mortgage rates.  Right now, we believe more buyers than sellers will result in another year of price appreciation in most markets. However, we see huge differences by market. We are carefully monitoring supply in Texas and affordability in California and projecting very different years in each market and submarket. FREE AppDownload
