As soon as temperatures dip below 50 degrees, it’s officially time for a jacket. But instead of reaching for your old faithful again this season, perhaps it’s time to buy something a little more trendy and fashion-forward.  Judging from the Fall/Winter 2014 fashion shows from last Spring, these are the five types of coats every man should rock this season. www.belstaff.com and www.mrporter.com and www1.bloomingdales.com(LEFT: Belstaff, $2,495; CENTER: MR PORTER, $595; RIGHT: Bloomingdale's, $556) A popular style for this season is shearling-lined coats that look like classic bombardier jackets that were worn by pilots during WWII.  The look is rugged and manly, but also best relegated to your weekend wear or worn on a chilly weekend getaway. Usually made with leather, these will be a nice transitional coat for the season and are also great for date nights when worn with jeans and boots. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.mrporter.com and shop.nordstrom.com(LEFT: Bloomingdale's $698; CENTER: MR PORTER, $1,670; RIGHT: Norstrom, $170)  Men’s fashion has brought back the double-button jacket in recent years, whether its a trench, peacoat, or a simple jacket. These might seem a bit more fashion-forward than the average cookie-cutter button down, but they're actually quite flattering. Just make sure to have the coat tailored to accentuate your waist and choose a style with a peak lapel to show off your shoulders. www.brooksbrothers.com and www1.bloomingdales.com and www1.macys.com(LEFT: Brooks Brothers, $698; CENTER: Bloomingdale's, $895; RIGHT: Macy's, $230) Nautical toggle coats will be everywhere this fall if the spring runway shows were any indication. The so-called Paddington or Duffel Coats have big pockets, toggles, and are usually knee or hip length. These were another war coat worn by the British Royal Navy in WWI and WWII (the toggles allowed them to be fastened and unfastened while wearing thick gloves). Though a bit more casual than a classic overcoat, duffel coats can be worn in casual settings or at the office. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.mrporter.com and www.jcrew.com(LEFT: Bloomingdale's, $795; CENTER: MR PORTER, $3,875; RIGHT: J.Crew, $450) Every man should own a classic, simple top coat. It's the perfect jacket to wear over a nice suit, or with a sweater and a pair of jeans to dress up your casual outfit. Look for simple lines and a fit that skims your body rather than hugs it. When done correctly, the top coat will be cut to fit cleanly over your favorite suit. www.mrporter.com and www1.bloomingdales.com and  shop.nordstrom.com(LEFT: MR PORTER, $3,925; CENTER: Bloomingdale's, $1,520; RIGHT: Nordstrom, $845) Puffy, quilted coats will officially be back in style this winter. Try and choose a jacket that is as streamlined as possible so you don’t look like a marshmallow (or time traveler from the early aughts), and pair it with slim-fitting jeans and sneakers.  Because it’s a sporty look, avoid wearing this style of jacket with suits or fancier attire. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.brooksbrothers.com and www.mrporter.com(LEFT: Neiman Marcus, $745; CENTER: Brooks Brothers, $298; RIGHT: MR PORTER, $830) The most versatile thing you can wear this fall will be a classic down vest. It will amp up your favorite sweaters and button downs while keeping your look casual yet polished.  Whether it's made with herringbone, wool, or a jacket material, these vests will carry you all the way into spring. FREE AppDownload
