Brookings/BISHere are the highlights from Shin's presentation.As the 2008 financial crisis gets further in the rearview mirror, what's the next threat to the global economy? That question was the subject of a presentation by Hyun Song Shin, the relatively new head economist for the Bank of International Settlements (the "central bank of central banks"), at the Brookings Institution on Thursday. You can listen to the full audio of the speech here. Shin laid out a couple of different global trends that BIS is looking at. The two big ones were: 1) the boom in lending that occurs via debt issued on the bond market versus conventional bank loans, and 2) the effect fluctuations in the dollar have on the global economy. There are two issues that Shin is looking at: First, the fact that so much of the credit growth in the economy is coming from capital markets, not necessarily from traditional bank lending (in particular, there was a lot of talk about large asset managers buying up corporate bonds). That's a shift from pre-2008 crises. The common wisdom is that asset managers are benign in the global economy. But Shin doesn't think that's true anymore. Brookings / BISThe corporate bond market is booming as other forms of lending shrink.The question is how and if that will affect the real economy in the event of a big shock to the financial system. On the one hand, Shin said, large asset managers aren't as leveraged as banks. On the other hand, clients of asset managers tend to be things like pension funds. A huge credit crunch that hits asset managers hard would be bad news for the retirement accounts of a lot of Americans. The second issue Shin discussed is how dollar-denominated debt ripples through the global economy. Dollar-denominated credit to non-US borrowers has skyrocketed over the last decade or so (even more so from outside of the US than from domestic lenders). When financial institutions outside the US deal with both debt in dollars and debt in local currency, fluctuations in the exchange rate have a big impact. Brookings / BIS When the dollar appreciates, on the other hand, things get tight for institutions lending in local currency. Shin thinks this may be a partial cause of the crises that occurred in Latin America in the 1980s and Asia in the 1990s.  Brookings / BISThe timing of financial crises seems to be tied to big moves in the dollar. On top of that, Shin says, there's a trend of buying corporate bonds with longer and longer maturities (the average is now about 12 years). This makes them more sensitive to yield changes. Once again, everything's fine now, but Shin thinks there's real risk here if a big disruption occurs in the dollar market. FREE AppDownload
