Historically, it is the pace of global economic growth that has and should continue to be the most important driver of the price of metals, energy products and other commodities. And from mid-2012 until the middle of last year—when commodities were in critical condition—annualized GDP growth was running below its long-run average of 3.5 percent. But growth began reverting to its long-term average in the second half of 2013, and the year ended with an estimated 3.3 percent GDP increase in the fourth quarter. Commodity prices began stabilizing in the latter part of the year, too. In 2014, Credit Suisse’s economists expect continued, albeit modest, improvement in global GDP growth, with a forecasted increase of 3.8 percent. And that, they say, should result in flat commodity prices. “Over the course of this year, demand is unlikely to be either strong enough to push many prices materially higher, or to suggest a clear short,” the bank’s commodity analysts note in their most recent forecast of Jan. 6.  The first quarter could be a little rough going, as industrial production in resource-hungry emerging markets slowed at the end of last year. That has been particularly notable in China, where Credit Suisse’s own estimates show that the boost from a government stimulus program implemented last summer appeared to be waning by year-end. But by the second half of 2014, the picture should start to improve. “Prices of many base metals in particular will come under pressure in the first quarter,” Credit Suisse Global Head of Product Research Ric Deverell said on a client call last week. “But then as we move into the second quarter, and certainly into the second half of the year, prices will stabilize and then move higher.” One notable recent change is that the prices of commodities and equities have begun to move somewhat independently again, this after hanging together for much of the Great Recession. That temporary union was not an unusual one: During and after the biggest macroeconomic shocks in modern history – the Depression in the 1930s, or the oil shortages of the 1970s, for example – investors have tended to sell equities and commodities at the same time, for the same reasons. Fearing the knock-on effects of sluggish demand, they shed any relatively risky assets in favor of “risk off” assets, including cash. But as markets ease out of that panicked mindset, an asset class whose prices no longer correlate tightly with equities may once again start to look like a viable component of a diversified portfolio, Deverell noted.  The performances of individual commodities are diverging, too, creating clearer bright spots and danger zones within each asset class. In such an environment, say Credit Suisse analysts, understanding specific supply and demand pressures will prove more important in 2014 than it has been in several years. With that in mind, we review Credit Suisse’s forecasts for several commodities. Oil: Bearish Outlook, But a Lot Depends on Geopolitics  Analysts are pessimistic about oil prices in the coming year, and recently reduced their 2014 forecast on Brent crude prices by 8 percent to $102 per barrel. In the third quarter, they expect the price to break through the $100- to $120-per-barrel range it’s traded since mid-2010, to an average of $95 per barrel. Much will depend on what happens in two countries that defy easy forecasting: Iran and Libya, both members of OPEC. Right now, the Iranian embargo is keeping 1.2 million barrels of crude out of the market, while nearly 1 million barrels are offline due to ongoing protests in Libya. Credit Suisse Head of Global Energy Research Jan Stuart forecasts that Libyan oil production could normalize by the end of this year, especially if a Feb. 14 meeting in Tripoli to draw up a new constitution goes well. Earlier this month, armed protesters at the El Sharara oilfield, which produces about 20 percent of Libya’s crude oil, agreed to call off disruptive demonstrations. Meanwhile, if Iranian leaders and the so-called P5+1 group – China, France, Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany – successfully negotiate a deal on Iran’s nuclear program this year, sanctions could conceivably relax enough to return 500,000 barrels per day of Persian oil to global markets.  Strong production in non-OPEC countries should put additional pressure on prices later this year. Stuart expects producers outside the cartel to ramp up production by 1.5 million barrels per day, with 1.16 million of those extra barrels coming from the United States. Precious Metals: No Hope For Gold Bugs, But Palladium a Bright Spot  Gold: Is anybody a gold bull anymore? Prices of the yellow metal, after all, fell some 25 percent over the past year from $1,668 to $1,249 per ounce. And it’s probably not over yet, cautions Credit Suisse Head of Precious Metals Research Tom Kendall, who forecasts that prices will drop even further, to an average of $1,080 in 2014. Several different factors are at play here, too. With complete economic meltdowns sidestepped both in Europe and the United States, fewer investors are rushing into gold in preparation for a financial apocalypse. Nor, for that matter, is there much current interest in gold as a hedge against rising prices, since the inflation outlook in much of the developed world is extremely low. In addition, with interest rates rising in the U.S., yield-bearing investments are starting to look more attractive. Some 85 percent of the demand for gold is either for jewelry or investment purposes – gold bars, coins and gold-linked exchange-traded funds – as opposed to industrial use, Credit Suisse says. But Credit Suisse’s Kendall sees softening demand there as well, predicting falling demand for gold bars and coins, as well as a continuing selloff in gold-linked exchange-traded funds Restrictions on gold imports enacted last year in India, the world’s largest gold buyer, should also serve to constrain demand. Taking those factors into account, Credit Suisse forecasts an oversupply of 100 metric tons of the shiny stuff in 2014. Palladium: The near-term future looks good for this precious metal, not because of any huge increase in demand among makers and buyers of fine jewelry, but because of its more practical industrial applications. Palladium is used in catalytic converters for gasoline-powered vehicles and should benefit from rising demand for new cars in emerging markets, particularly China, and North America. Palladium prices should also get a supply-side boost, as Russia is reportedly running down its huge stockpiles of the precious metal and selling less into the market. All told, Credit Suisse expects the metal to sell at $760 an ounce on average in 2014, a 4 percent increase over the 2013 average. Base Metals: Winners and Losers  Zinc: Credit Suisse expects this metal, which is used primarily to galvanize steel, to be one of the key winners among industrial commodities this year. But that outlook is based less on an overall bullish outlook for steel demand than it is on zinc’s own supply/demand dynamics. In the coming year, the zinc supply should only grow by 1.5 percent, while Credit Suisse expects global demand to grow between 4 and 4.5 percent in both 2014 and 2015— the result, the analyst says, will be an increase in zinc prices by some 8.9 percent in 2014 to $2,100 per ton. Over the medium term, zinc prices should also enjoy some support from the mid-2015 closure of the largest zinc mine in the world, the Chinese-controlled MMG Century mine in Australia. Iron ore: Iron ore,the main ingredient in steel, enjoyed strong demand in the second half of 2013, as steel production in China grew dramatically thanks to a government stimulus that included money for building railroads. But they don’t call them cyclical metals for nothing: with global supply of iron ore expected to increase by 12 percent this year, Credit Suisse predicts that average 2014 prices will end up 18 percent lower than their 2013 levels at $111 per ton. Surprisingly strong demand out of China could save the day, but it would take another year of 9 percent growth in Chinese steel demand to keep the market balanced. Credit Suisse does not foresee that happening.    All charts from Credit Suisse’s “Commodities Forecasts: Light at the End of the Tunnel.” FREE AppDownload
