Wikimedia CommonsNewton's CradleFor the first two months of the year, investors could earn outsize returns by simply following the market’s momentum, selling underperforming emerging markets equities and buying outperforming small-caps and growth stocks. But in March, those momentum trades reversed without warning. The upheaval in momentum trades has led some to think that we’re witnessing a break in the post-financial crisis bull market, but Credit Suisse’s global equities strategy team disagrees. There’s no doubt something has changed: Emerging market equities outperformed American stocks by 5 percentage points from March through the end of April. Global large caps outdid small caps by 3 percentage points, and global value stocks are up 4 percent since the beginning of the year, compared to 1 percent for growth stocks. But does such a shift portend a bear market? Not likely. In a recent note entitled, “What Lies Behind the Reversal in Momentum?” the strategists say the about-face signals that momentum trends were simply overbought – not that global equity markets are in trouble. Credit Suisse’s strategists point out that markets don’t appear to be in “risk-off” mode – relatively risky assets such as emerging market equities and currencies as well as peripheral European equities have outperformed. The reversal can’t be explained by a simple change in investor thesis, either. If investors were flocking to emerging market and value stocks because they were optimistic about global growth, they wouldn’t have dumped small caps, which tend to follow the business cycle. Likewise, if the move to large-caps and value stocks were motivated by concern over an early interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve or the Bank of England, they would have dumped emerging markets equities instead of buying them. Instead, it seems more likely that several idiosyncratic factors drove the reversal – the most important of which was the fact that some trades had done quite well to that point, while some others looked compelling. Before the March shift, the price-to-earnings ratio of U.S. small caps was at a six-year high relative to large-caps, while emerging markets were trading at a 30 percent discount to developed-market stocks. The fact that investors took profits on high-performing assets and bought seemingly undervalued ones doesn’t mean a bear market is around the corner. There is also no solid historical evidence that momentum reversals predict a more widespread drop in equities. The numerous momentum selloffs that occurred between 1980 and 1994 had no clear correlation with the larger market – they happened when stocks were rising and at turning points. Since then, momentum reversals have tended to happen after a broad-based sell-off—in 1994, 1998, and 2006, momentum reversed at market troughs. While it is somewhat troubling that momentum sell-offs occurred three to four months ahead of major stock market declines in 2000 and 2008, two data points are hardly a reliable predictor. What’s more, one that is – the direction of credit spreads – is still flashing green. Such spreads tend to widen three months ahead of an equities peak, and they’ve actually tightened since the beginning of this year. Add to the above the fact that we don’t seem to be in a period of irrational exuberance. While the number of companies with rising stock prices still outnumbers those with falling prices, global risk appetite and equity sentiment remain below historical averages, and even high-flying tech stocks are trading at lower multiples than before the dot-com bust. Companies trading at price-to-sales ratios of 5 or more make up just 18 percent of the NASDAQ’s market cap, compared to 91 percent during the tech bubble. In short, Credit Suisse forecasts that global economic growth will continue to benefit stocks in the back half of the year. The bull market is getting a little long in the tooth, but it’s not over yet. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
