Status Quo for the Bank of Japan  Credit Suisse’s Japan economists have long argued that the April 1 increase in Japan’s consumption tax from 5 percent to 8 percent would hurt domestic demand and economic growth. Given Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s aggressive approach to Japan’s two-decade struggle with sluggish growth and deflation, many expected the central bank to ease further in the first quarter. It didn’t. A quarterly Japanese business sentiment survey released in March showed that manufacturers expected business conditions to deteriorate over the next three months. Retailers were particularly pessimistic, which Credit Suisse’s Japan economists worry could signal a “consumption recession” in which second quarter household spending drops more than 8.5 percent. Retailers raised prices in response to consumer demand ahead of the tax hike, pushing inflation (ex-fresh food) to 1.3 percent in February, up from -0.3 percent last February. But as demand falls post-hike, prices will follow, Credit Suisse says. At an April 8 press conference, Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda reiterated that he is not considering additional easing. But the central bank’s hand may be forced if Japanese equities markets falter. Politics may force it, too: Kuroda and Abe are reportedly set to meet this month to discuss monetary policy. Yellen’s Bombshell Clearly stunned by the effect of her comments, Yellen went into backpedal mode almost immediately. And she appears to have succeeded in unwinding the effects of her March 19 remarks. While yields on five-year Treasuries jumped 19 basis points the day she spoke, notes of all durations have decreased since. And the economic data still supports a dovish policy outlook for the Fed, according to a recent note from Credit Suisse’s fixed income and global research strategists entitled “Guidance on the Dots – When to Ignore Them?” Still, Credit Suisse expects economic data to start improving in the second half of the year, at which point Treasury prices are likely to starting falling again. The specific triggers that Credit Suisse thinks could cause the decline to begin: Unemployment hits 6 percent, inflation starts to rise, and production and retail sales show marked improvement. The strategists expect all three trends to take hold later this year and early next year, but Credit Suisse’s Investment Committee says in an April 10 report that it does not expect the Fed to hike rates until the second half of 2015.  China’s Copper Conundrum  Copper prices have been falling gradually since the beginning of last year, but they plummeted nine percent between March 5 and March 20, from $7,053 per ton to $6,430. Analysts expected a drop in red metal prices, but it came earlier and steeper than anyone anticipated. The decline was driven not only by a shrinking “scarcity premium” due to a buildup in the supply of unrefined copper concentrate, but also by concerns about China’s credit situation. Copper is widely used as loan collateral in China, and the selloff reflected market fears that a wave of loan defaults could result in large quantities of copper being dumped onto the industrial metals market. But Credit Suisse commodities analysts think there’s little chance of that happening. The analysts think that prices, which have recovered to $6,650 per ton since the March plunge, should bottom around $6,250 a ton in the third quarter. FREE AppDownload
