Qantas just posted its full-year results and while the underlying loss was better than expected there’s a shock A$2.8 billion statutory loss being booked after a horror year. The loss was driven by a massive aircraft fleet writedown. However, the underlying loss of A$646 million is about A$100 million better than analyst forecasts and was achieved on the back of a 3.5% or A$566 million fall in revenue to A$15.352 billion. Profit from Qantas domestic has been shredded by the capacity war with Virgin, with EBIT coming in at A$30 million compared to A$365 million the year before. Here are the key numbers: Some of the major costs that from the $2 billion transformation program announced six months ago include A$428 million for restructuring and redundancies, and non-cash costs linked to the early retirement of fleet at A$394 million. Half of the 5,000 redundancies announced earlier this year have been implemented and by the end of 2015, 4,000 jobs will have gone. Qantas International reported an EBIT loss of A$497 million. Some commentators speculated it was losing $800 million. Jetstar booked an underlying EBIT loss of A$116 million, driven partly by a A$70 million loss from startup costs in Asia. There was a real shock from the domestic arm, which posted an underlying EBIT of A$30 million, down from A$365 million in FY13. The company says it expects underlying profit before tax in the first half of this financial year. “There is no doubt today’s numbers are confronting, but they represent the year that is past,” CEO Alan Joyce said. “We have now come through the worst. With our accelerated Qantas Transformation program we are already emerging as a leaner, more focused and more sustainable Qantas Group. “There is a clear and significant easing of both international and domestic capacity growth, which will stabilise the revenue environment. “We expect a rapid improvement in the Group’s financial performance – and a return to Underlying PBT profit in the first half of FY15, subject to factors outside our control.” Qantas announced it had decided to keep its frequent flyer program, Qantas Loyalty, within the company. There had been speculation that it could be partially floated. Qantas Loyalty recorded record full-year with underlying EBIT of A$286 million, up 10%. And Qantas International is being split off to form its own corporate entity, a move made easier by the recent legislation, the Qantas Sale Act. “This will have no impact on the day-to-day operations, network or staffing,” Joyce says. Already $400 million of costs have been removed from Qantas International over the past two years and there’s more to come. Joyce says earnings recovery will continue to be driven by cost cutting and the easing back of capacity oversupply. Results by Division: Business Insider Australia Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
