REUTERS/Joshua Roberts President of the European Central Bank Mario Draghi and U.S. Federal Reserve chair Janet YellenHe will do "whatever it takes".  That was once said by this president of the European Central Bank (ECB).  But he has constraints that differentiate the ECB from the Fed. The Fed deals with a riskless security whose payment is guaranteed by the United States. The ECB has multiple sovereigns ranging from Greece or Cyprus on one end to Finland or Germany on the other. The creditworthiness gap for ECB sovereign debt is huge. The Fed has the power to police banks and the US has a liquidation process (FDIC) that is nationally uniform. The ECB relies on its member sovereign central banks who deal with their respective national banks.  Think through what it means to try to develop a regional policy when the credit standard in Finland and in Greece are supposed to be uniform. So Draghi has a problem. He is facing no growth in the eurozone, no inflation, Russian risk for energy prices and ongoing tension in Ukraine, weakened banks in some countries and questionable collateral. Add to that the need to achieve a consensus and Draghi is forced to move slowly. His "whatever it takes" is in a race with Godot and right now it is a dead heat. The ECB may do some more QE with small business lending pooled loans.  The problem for Draghi is he doesn't trust the credit standard of the collateral that will be pledged and he is dealing with each country's central bank as credit police.  Europe in the broad sense is about the size of US. Only the United Kingdom has a positive story.  Janet Yellen knows this.   Thus the private conversation between Yellen and Draghi in Jackson is as important today as the one held between Bernanke and Trichet in November 19-20 on South Africa in 2008.  That is the speech we will not hear but it is a key driver for policy. It suggests Yellen moves slowly while Draghi maintains a zero interest rate policy for years, perhaps to the end of this decade. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
