For the last five years, Germany has been an oasis of good news in the midst of the European debt crisis storm. But a recent spate of negative economic news indicates that Europe’s largest economy is finally experiencing its own nasty weather. Slowing growth in Asia, Russian sanctions, and a painfully slow European recovery are putting a strain on the very thing to which Germany owes its resilience – its high-value exports. Credit Suisse believes this is the beginning of a fundamental recalibration of an economy that analysts call the most unbalanced in the world. In the second quarter, German GDP fell 0.2 percent over the previous quarter, the first decline in two years. In August, German exports fell 1 percent over the previous year, with sales outside Europe declining 4.7 percent. The German government’s monthly manufacturing survey registered a 4 percent monthly decline in August, with the capital goods that drive German exports absorbing an 8.8 percent hit. New orders fell 5.7 percent, with foreign orders down 8.4 percent, compared to 2 percent for domestic orders. The manufacturing declines are comparable with those of the Great Recession. Unsurprisingly, business sentiment fell for the sixth straight month in October. Noting that later-than-usual school holidays played some role in the gloomy August results, Credit Suisse economists expect disappointing German manufacturing data to improve, if only slightly, in the coming months. Indeed, the manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose from a 15-month low of 49.9 in September to 51.4 in October, and consumer sentiment also nudged higher. But calendar irregularities can’t explain everything. Credit Suisse says Germany is suffering disproportionately from an Asian-led slowdown in global growth, revealing the risks inherent in allowing domestic demand to stagnate and relying too heavily on exports. Policymakers and economists from the U.S. Treasury, International Monetary Fund, and European Commission have been warning for more than a year that the German economy will have to recalibrate if euro-zone growth is to fully recover. Those calls have only grown louder of late. The preferred solution among policy analysts is for the German government to implement fiscal stimulus to nudge German savers to spend on both domestic and imported goods and services. That hasn’t happened, though President Angela Merkel recently alluded vaguely to the potential for government investment in digital and energy technologies. Still, Credit Suisse says Germany’s trade surplus is unsustainable, and will eventually shift no matter what she does. A primary problem: Germany has become more exposed to economies with long-term, structural growth problems over the past decade, as exports to developed countries have fallen and those to Russia, China and other Asian emerging markets have risen. Industrial production growth in Asia, which accounts for 45 percent of the global manufacturing economy, was close to zero between March and September. Chinese GDP grew just 7.3 percent in the third quarter, the lowest rate since 2009. Credit Suisse expects Asian emerging markets, ex-China, to stabilize soon, but China’s moderation is a more fundamental and long-lasting shift. Meanwhile, Russia’s economy was already foundering at the beginning of this year, and the sanctions have only made things worse. German exports to Russia were down 26 percent on an annual basis in August. Finally, the euro-zone’s stubborn failure to reach escape velocity is worrisome because European countries are still Germany’s most important export markets. Given that Germany accounts for the bulk of the euro zone’s 1 percent annual GDP growth, weakness there will put a damper on overall regional growth. It could also spread trouble to central and northern European economies that make parts for German goods or to euro-zone countries such as France that sell to Germany. There’s also a risk that the uncertain outlook will cause German companies to cut spending and investment, which could further damage consumer sentiment and domestic demand. Though Credit Suisse believes global economic growth troughed in August, they expect German growth to remain anemic at best. With Germany still wavering about fiscal stimulus and other European countries struggling merely to balance their budgets, the European Central Bank is Europe’s best hope for stimulus. Credit Suisse economists say an announcement of sovereign bond buying could help European economies by weakening the euro, but Germany would benefit less than others — a recent ECB paper shows that German exports benefit more from fluctuations in demand than in price. Exporting their way to strong economic growth was a good strategy for a long time. But time catches up with us all. FREE AppDownload
