What’s more, activists are going after bigger game. While the majority of attacks are still focused on companies with market values of less than $500 million, mammoth companies like Apple, JCPenney, Dow, PepsiCo, Hess, Microsoft, DuPont and more have all been recent targets. Four things have changed making activist investors more powerful: 1. Passive institutional investors are supportive: Traditionally long-only institutional investors that would once have spurned “corporate raiders” are now more inclined to side with activists, amplifying an activist’s potential for success. These big investors, who often hold meaningful blocks of a company’s shares, now mingle at activist conferences because they want to learn more about activists’ methods. When an activist approaches them with an investment thesis, these investors are more likely to lend their support.   2. Activists are communicating smarter and louder about their campaigns, using dedicated websites, white papers, sophisticated investor presentations, broadcast interviews, blogs and Twitter to quickly ramp their offensive and gain ground. As a result, activists are better and more appealing communicators, making the notion of a potential fight more intimidating for management and boards. 3. Activists no long need to wage a full-scale and expensive proxy fight to accomplish their goals. Activists are submitting shareholder proposals (which the company has to pay to put in its proxy statement), launching withhold campaigns or pursuing exempt solicitations. All of these tools are much cheaper and typically easier than the traditional proxy fight and can accomplish the same goal.   4. Companies are acquiescing. In response to activist initiatives, board seats are being offered, CEOs are retiring, and buybacks and spinoffs are taking place. FactSet SharkWatch counted 10 instances in 2013 in which a U.S. company agreed to break up, sell or exit businesses after an activist investor recommended changes, the highest number in the five years covered by its database. This suggests a new phase in which companies, their boards and their investors are more open to involvement from outside investors.   What do activists want? Historically, a company that was consistently meeting its own projections would generally be immune to the overtures of an activist investor. But given the enormous and motivated dollars now looking for targets, it’s increasingly clear that no company is outside the scope of a possible activist approach. Activists may find any of the following appealing: a company with a consistently under-performing division that can be overhauled or, paradoxically, an over-performing division or asset that can be spun-off; lagging performance versus industry peers; a large pool of cash that is perceived to be sitting unproductively; a leadership or Board that may be viewed as failing to keep up with industry trends; or outdated corporate governance practices that are viewed as hindering value creation. The likelihood of an activist campaign gaining momentum depends on many factors, including composition and pre-existing support of the company’s shareholder base (index funds, for example, are traditionally less inclined to get involved), the degree to which the company is seen to have underperformed, the perceived ease-of-execution of the activist’s plan, and ultimately, the extent to which the company’s shareholder base rally’s around the activist’s proposition. What companies can do to prepare Faced with greater risk of an activist challenge, companies and their boards must proactively give themselves a check-up of their market position and vulnerability to activist campaigns. They must ask, “What would an activist be interested in, and where would they attack?” and then proactively institute safeguards and build support for their corporate strategy. 1. Drive greater clarity around corporate strategy. In their investor communications, management should strive for clarity, specificity and transparency in discussing corporate strategy and future expectations. As much as possible, they should ensure that investors understand their vision and ability to realize it, and convey why their strategy creates optimal shareholder value and represents the best use of capital. Importantly, they must show how their strategy is producing tangible results, whether in financial or operational terms ideally besting industry averages.   2. Enhance quality of dialog with investors. Companies should increase the quality of their dialogue with their institutional investors, especially as it relates to expectations and strategies for creating shareholder value. They must know their investors and their expectations better than anyone else.  And they must attract investors who share their board’s investment preferences and time horizon and are thus less likely to respond to alternative proposals for value creation. 3. Determine what is negotiable in advance. Given increasing chances of an attack, all Boards and managements should discuss their tolerances for what are negotiable and non-negotiable aspects of their company’s strategy before an activist investor appears. It may be, for example, that certain changes to the capital structure that can improve shareholder returns are in fact acceptable, or even advisable, if they leave the Board’s core strategy intact. 4. Proactively remove red flags. Companies should proactively remove sources of discontent by taking strong pro-investor positions on shareholder issues such as director selection and election (sometimes called proxy access), executive compensation, dual CEO/chairman roles and poison pills. Investing, like all human behavior, is cyclical and the current environment is more tilted in favor of activist investors than at any point in recent history. Boards and managements must be better prepared in today’s world for potential activism so they can respond more nimbly and at a faster pace than they might have in the past, or else risk losing control of their corporate agenda. Lex Suvanto is managing director and leads Edelman’s worldwide Financial Communications and Special Situations practice.  Jeff Zilka, general manager, leads the practice’s team in Chicago. FREE AppDownload
