Flickr/libertygrace0One of the main options House Republicans are considering as an "ask" for a one-year increase in the debt ceiling is a repeal of the Affordable Care Act's "risk corridors," which Republicans have recently begun arguing is a "bailout" for insurance companies. But a new report from the Congressional Budget Office suggests that a repeal of those programs could actually lead to an increase in the deficit. According to the CBO's report, Obamacare's reinsurance risk corridor programs will save $8 billion over the next three years. The programs are set to expire in 2016. The CBO projects outlays of $208 billion and revenues of $215 billion "related to payments and collections for risk adjustment, reinsurance, and risk corridors" — which amounts to net receipts of about $8 billion. Previously, the CBO had projected no net budgetary effect. The "risk corridors" in question aim to make it easier for insurance companies to transition to the new health-care system, largely by making it less financially risky for them to sell new insurance plans on the exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act.  Until 2016, the risk corridors are set up so that the government would compensate insurance companies that have bigger costs than they expected while transitioning to the new system. The provision is designed to protect insurers that see an especially unhealthy pool of customers and end up with claims that are higher than expected. In the report, the CBO says that the programs will encourage insurers to offer coverage under new federal regulations and limit their incentives to avoid accepting high-cost enrollees. Democrats have pointed out that Republicans' sudden opposition to reinsurance and risk corridor programs flies in the face of similar provisions they supported as part of Medicare Part D. The risk programs in Medicare Part D are actually permanent. Twenty-two current Senate Republicans and many prominent House Republicans, including Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor, voted for Medicare Part D with risk provisions included. "Today’s CBO report shows that Republicans’ most recent debt-limit ransom idea would not only cause premiums to skyrocket for American families, it would also add billions to the deficit," Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the chair of the Senate Budget Committee, said Tuesday. "It’s a reminder that Republicans are so desperate to attack the Affordable Care Act that they will do or say just about anything, including throwing their own supposed principles on debt reduction under the bus. Republicans are clearly flailing over the debt limit, but we are not going to let them hijack the economy over bogus demands that are targeted more at settling internal political disputes than actually moving our economy forward responsibly." FREE AppDownload
