Getty ImagesDeeb Salem may well emerge as the poster child for how not to negotiate a great salary and bonus. The former Goldman Sachs mortgage-backed securities trader was extraordinarily well-paid, even by Wall Street standards. During six years as a mortgage-trading wunderkind at Goldman, he walked away with some $35 million — yes, that's in American dollars — in compensation. In one memorable year Salem earned $15 million — even more than more than the $9 million bonus of CEO Lloyd Blankfein. But while Salem was a savvy enough trader to make billions of dollars for Goldman, he was a crap negotiator. He believes his bonus was $8.25 million too low — much less, he complains, than the $13 million he promised his mother he would earn. That’s why the New York supreme court is hearing his plea that the bank owes him another $16 million. You don't need to be worried about your $8.25 million bonus to learn something from the cautionary tale of Deeb Salem. Even if we win the lottery, odds are most of us will never see the kind of money that Salem has pocketed at the tender age of 35. He can afford to make foolish mistakes when it comes to negotiating his pay, like trusting the whispered promises of superiors who sidle up beside him, cocktail in hand, to tell him that he is a “steal” at $15 million a year in bonus money. (Hearing that you're underpaid at $15 million a year can really corrupt a person's view of his contribution.) He can afford to alienate current and former employers by suing Goldman Sachs for what he believes he’s owed, and claiming Blankfein didn’t understand what Salem’s trading desk was doing. We can’t. What we can do is to learn from the mistakes that Salem has made as we try to negotiate our way to better compensation packages — even if they’re smaller than his by several zeroes. First of all, watch out for the ego factor. It’s true that some of us may go into salary negotiations undervaluing ourselves — that, along with a failure to do enough research, is one of the most frequently cited reasons for the gender pay gap. But it’s just as common for an employer to become wary of a candidate who strikes them an egotistical and entitled jerk. That’s one thing on Wall Street — where the stakes are more expensive — but it's true in your workplace too. Elsewhere, warning signals will flash for managers if you start demanding business-class travel when everyone else flies coach, insisting on a certain title, or a week more of vacation than anyone else in the company earns. Salem couldn't convince himself to work for less than $8.25 million, the same way Linda Evangelista once humblebragged that she wouldn't get out of bed for less than $10,000 a day. By all means, know what your “no go” number is — the salary figure below which switching jobs, or taking this job, simply doesn’t make financial sense. You don’t want to settle for too little. On the other hand, you don’t want establish unrealistic salary requirements and not budge. It’s called a negotiation for a reason: you have to go back and forth. Don't trust the great things your bosses say at cocktail parties, or by the watercooler. Don't trust the promises made in passing that get your hopes high. Get it in writing, whether “it” is the promise of a bonus or a full-on job offer. All Salem had in writing was the employment offer he signed when he joined Goldman that stated bonuses were paid at the firm’s discretion. He was never going to get a written promise of that $15 million he was supposedly worth, and he shouldn't have counted on it. It was all talk: that’s why he got a “mere” $8.25 million on bonus day. In his arbitration hearing, he claimed other investment banks were lining up to hire him almost from the day he started working on Wall Street. Where were those written offers? One member of that panel later called Salem’s case “bulls--t”. A written job offer is a statement of your market value: how much your talents are worth. When you’ve got a written offer, you’ve got leverage. Your possible future employers have shown their hand: they have demonstrated that they want to hire you and told you how much they value you. They’ve made the first move. Someone I know was just recruited for a job that she was genuinely ambivalent about taking on. She dithered after receiving the formal offer, for reasons that had nothing to do with money. That just made the company more eager to hire her. It was clear to them that she wasn’t playing games — that she was genuinely uncertain. So they sweetened the pot. Again and again. When she finally came aboard, the CFO told her — to her astonishment — that he’d never encountered a tougher negotiator. All of this requires careful maneuvering, as does eliciting a counteroffer from your current employer – which you can then accept, or use to parlay into a still higher offer from the potential new company you’ve been talking to. If you try the latter strategy, remember that your employer may well decide not to counter the offer, so (a) don’t bring them an offer that is only verbal; (b) don’t do it unless you’re prepared to walk out the door (there’s nothing worse than having to confess that actually, you’d rather like to keep your current job and salary, thanks very much); and (c) don’t do it repeatedly. Someone I know pulled this off three times in a row, staying put each time at a progressively higher salary. But she won the wrong kind of reputation for herself, alienating prospective employers and making her current boss feel resentful and manipulated. She ended up leaving her company for a different industry altogether. In any company, you have a few windows during which you can try to renegotiate your compensation levels. The first — and biggest — of these opportunities is when you first join the company, so don’t squander it by not doing your research before you start those negotiations: all your raises and bonuses will be based on how well you do in those negotiations. After that, there will be smaller opportunities from time to time: when you have a competing offer, in the wake of an extremely good performance review or if you’ve been asked to take on significant new responsibilities. Use them carefully and well — and don’t throw a temper tantrum over a few million dollars if you’ve already been out-earning your CEO. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk.  FREE AppDownload
