Scott Olson/Getty ImagesJCPenney (JCP) gapped up more than 16% on Friday on strong earnings and hopes that the retail stock’s long-awaited turnaround is at last underway. In Q1, JCPenney reported a narrower loss on net sales of $2.8 billion vs. $2.64 billion a year ago, with same-store sales increasing 6.2% year-over-year and even rising sequentially over the previous quarter. This is a big deal, since a big reason JCP stock crashed and burned in 2012 and 2013 was crumbling same-store sales. JCP stock has exploded higher as a result, no doubt as a result of short sellers running for the exit; while total short interest in JCPenney had fallen from a peak of 62 million shares in September 2013 to just 16 million or so at the end of April, volume had also declined enough that the ratio of trading days to cover that interest spiked to 5.6 days — the second highest measure since July. But as the shorts wash out, the question remains: Are there any investors gutsy enough to go long in JCP stock and hang on for the ride? If there are, they are going to get a rude awakening after this initial pop fades … because JCP is still in deep trouble. Here’s why: JCP Still Unprofitable: Although JCPenney did post a narrower loss in Q1 of this year than last, it remains deeply unprofitable. In fact, the company isn’t expected to post a quarterly profit at any point through the end of fiscal 2015 according to Standard &amp; Poor’s forecasts. That means the company has an infinite forward P/E ratio, since profits don’t exist — something to remember before you talk about JCP stock being a bargain. Cash Crunch Remains: Along those lines, JCP stock remains pressured by its balance sheet and any money it has will be earmarked for stabilization — not growth. In April 2013, Goldman Sachs (GS) lent JCPenney $1.75 billion, then the company raised more than $800 million in secondary offering. But those tricks cannot be repeated, and with the company still unprofitable and saddled with long-term debts that are twice the total market cap … well, it’s not looking good for investment in growth or returning capital to shareholders via big dividends or buybacks. Stores Still Old and Unattractive: The big problem facing JCPenney is that, like its troubled peer Sears (SHLD), the locations are largely older and unattractive mall anchors that aren’t as appealing to most consumers. Retail analyst Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors advocates a “boots on the ground” strategy where he visits actual store locations to view how items are stocked, how employees treat customers and what the general shopping experience is like … and he has long maligned JCP stock as one of retail’s worst offenders when it comes to look and feel. With no profits and no cash to spend… how can JCPenney correct this in the long term? Broadly, Retail Sucks: As I wrote recently, retail sales rebounded in March but crumbled again in April. Those bulls expecting the warmer weather to usher in a big rebound in retail and consumer spending could be in for a lot of disappointment given the ugly April numbers and anemic GDP stats recently. Also, look at Walmart (WMT), which posted not just poor earnings but poor forward guidance as a sign of how trouble in the sector should continue. Remember Best Buy’s “Comeback” Story? JCP stock still is down more than 60% in two years, and about 50% in the last 12 months. This is a classic dead-cat bounce where overzealous shorts have abandoned ship — but aside from swing traders who have already made their money, the rest of us should simply be sitting this out. Does anyone really think JCP stock has another double-digit pop in it anytime soon? And even if it does, Best Buy (BBY) has showed us what happens once the comeback narrative crumbles; BBY stock jumped 245% in 2013 … then crashed 40% in short order. You better be darn sure you have further upside in JCPenney before you buy, or else you could get all of the downside volatility with none of the gains. Kudos to the traders who got in to JCP stock before this recent pop. But don’t expect the big gains of today to result in any long-term uptrend for JCPenney. Jeff Reeves is the editor of InvestorPlace.com and the author of The Frugal Investor’s Guide to Finding Great Stocks. Write him at editor@investorplace.com or follow him on Twitter via @JeffReevesIP. As of this writing, he did not own a position in any of the stocks named here. FREE AppDownload
