People who enjoy booze may have a little more luck in the online dating world than people who don't. Online dating site AYI.com shared data with Business Insider from a study they did of their members' drinking habits. AYI members have the option of indicating whether they never drink, drink rarely, drink socially, or drink often, and the study looked at various aspects of their members' drinking behavior. While a majority of AYI's members either drink socially or drink often in each state, there is some variation across the country. Only 52.9% of Utahn singles drink frequently, while 68.0% of North Dakotans do: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com AYI also looked at drinking rates for 31 cities across the country. In Salt Lake City, 55% of singles drink socially or often, and in Miami, a full 70% of AYI's members like to drink: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com Frequent drinkers are a little bit more likely to get responses to their messages than non-drinkers or members who only drink rarely. This is especially true for women: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com AYI also found that drinking tied into number of Facebook friends. For members under thirty, people who drank rarely have the smallest median number of friends, while people who drink often have the largest number. For members over thirty, the more you drink, the more friends you have: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com Fewer than half of users making less than $20,000 per year drink socially or often, while 73% of members making between $80,000 and $150,000 drink frequently, with a small decrease in the highest income group: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com Drinking rates rise sharply for users in their 20s, maxing out in their early 30s, and declining slowly for older users: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com For more insights on drinking and online dating, check out AYI's blog post on their study. All data for this post comes from AYI.com, owned by SNAP Interactive, a publicly-traded company. FREE AppDownload
