REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA Scotland soccer fan waves a Scottish saltire flag with Big Ben seen behind in Trafalgar Square in central London, August 14, 2013.In my previous piece, I explained why, if it wants to be a member of the EU, Scotland cannot simply carry on using the pound without a formal currency union with the rest of the UK (rUK), and why having its own currency within the EU is also unlikely to be viable over the longer-term. Angus Armstrong of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research has challenged the idea that Scotland’s immediately joining the euro, upon accession to the EU (which could presumably be negotiated so as to coincide with exit from the Sterling area) is an option. He contends that, whatever the long-term situation, Scotland would initially have to have its own currency. The reason is that, under the rules of the euro, a country wanting to join must first be a member of the "Exchange Rate Mechanism II" (ERM II) for two years. Since the UK is not going to do that, he claims Scotland would have to have its own currency before adopting the euro. I have two responses to this. First, even if true the only consequence for my other case is that, in addition to the economic losses Scotland would make in switching from the pound to the euro, Scotland would also make intermediate losses by having to convert its currency twice within only a couple of years. Second, although Angus is correct about what the rules say, I do not believe Scotland would, in practice, be forced to establish its own currency and join ERM II, and it is of interest to understand why. The ERMII mechanism is designed to ensure that countries have a sufficiently stable exchange rate that the correct parity (rate of exchange of the old currency into the euro) can be chosen when the euro is joined. Under ERMII countries must demonstrate that they can keep their currency within 15% of the target conversion parity for two years before conversion. But over the past two years, for example, the pound sterling has varied by much less than 15% from its current exchange rate of around 1.22 euros to the pound. Indeed, it has varied by less than 6%. That means that for practical purposes there is much less uncertainty over the correct parity for Scotland’s old currency (the pound) than there was for the Estonian kroon or the Lithuanian litas — both of which sat in ERMII whilst qualifying. To force Scotland to bear the currency conversion costs of creating its own currency simply so it could bear currency conversion costs again two years later to switch into euros would be regarded as perverse and unnecessary by all concerned. Hence, I believe this likely to be a false issue in the event that Scotland obtains instant EU membership. Unless something very odd happened to the sterling-euro exchange rate between now and Scottish independence, if it secured instant EU membership Scotland would be able to convert straight from pounds into euros without needing to create its own currency in between. There is, of course, the risk that Scotland would not be permitted to join the EU immediately upon becoming independent, and would instead face a qualifying period in many areas (not simply currency).Angus' case might well apply then.That could create significant additional disruption and uncertainty for the Scottish economy, which would sit in a strange limbo for years. The statements by George Osborne, Ed Balls and Danny Alexander that no currency union with an independent Scotland would be feasible have exposed a large degree of confusion amongst Scottish politicians and other commentators regarding what the dissolution of a currency union implies. For example, some have made remarks along the lines of "The pound is a shared asset – the English can't deny Scotland its share" or "Scotland is entitled to its claim upon the assets of the Bank of England". Each of those remarks is entirely correct, but have not the slightest thing to do with whether there is a formal currency union with England, rather suggesting that those making such remarks do not understand the basics of currency break-up. When an independent Scotland left the pound to form its own new currency – let's call it the Scotch dollar – it would pass a currency conversion law, changing all debt contracts that fall under Scottish law from pounds into Scotch dollars and, if this were thought necessary, mandating the exchange of all sterling notes and coin in Scotland into Scotch dollars and cents.Scotland would establish its own central bank – say, the Reserve Bank of Scotland, which would inherit the Scottish portion of the assets and liabilities of the Bank of England – e.g. the Reserve Bank of Scotland would get some Bank of England gold and foreign currency reserves and the claim on coupon payments from UK government debt held under QE presumably matching its portion of total UK government debt (which, in political terms at least, it is ludicrous to suggest Scotland could walk away from whilst hoping to become an EU member – does anyone believe Scotland would get into the EU if it repudiated its responsibilities for UK debt?). Thus there is no sense in which refusing to form a currency union with Scotland implies the rest of the UK attempting to deny Scotland its share of the pound or of the Bank of England's assets. These are basic points.The independence debate in Scotland would benefit, considerably, if Scottish politicians and commentators were to grasp them. More on this story:Westminster dynamites Alex Salmond's currency unionIs Cameron an asset or liability against Salmond?There are two men who could help Mr Cameron save Britain Listen to our weekly podcast: listen to ‘Is Edward Snowden a Russian 'useful idiot' just like the Soviet patsies of CND? ’ on Audioboo  FREE AppDownload
