marchissimo / FlickrIt should come as no surprise that India is the world’s sixth-largest auto market. After all, it’s the second most populous country in the world. Indians bought some 2.7 million light vehicles in 2010, compared with only 700,000 a decade earlier. But they’re just revving up the engine: J.D. Power &amp; Associates predicts that light vehicle sales will skyrocket to 11 million by 2020, which would make the nation the third-largest car market in the world. That’s the kind of growth you’d think would draw the attention of the world’s automotive giants, whether that’s Toyota, Volkswagen, General Motors or Ford. And it has. Remarkably, though, not one of the world’s top four auto manufacturers can claim any measure of success at entering the subcontinent. India is the only major market in the world where none of them even have a 5 percent share. It may not seem like an opportune time to focus on the country. Though years of modernization have created a robust middle class in India, GDP growth slowed sharply last year, and the currency fell to a record low. As a result, some international automakers have tapped on the brakes. Chrysler, for example, was supposed to debut its Jeep sport-utility vehicle in India next year, but recently announced it would delaythe launch. No new date was given. Not only that, surprisingly strong demand in developed markets such as the United States has made foreign expansion less of a pressing concern. But if the timing isn’t right today, it should be by 2020, and possibly even sooner. Credit Suisse analyst Jatin Chawla expects automobile sales to increase at least 15 percent annualized over the next five years, as the economy recovers and the population continues to grow. Which brings us back to the intriguing question of why foreign automakers can’t figure out the Indian driver. “The market defines value in a different way [than] most of the other large car markets in the world,” Chawla and Akshay Saxena wrote in a Credit Suisse report late last year called “India Four-Wheeler Sector: Why Is It a Challenge For Multinational Corporations?” One reason the analysts offer is somewhat self-evident: Most foreign automakers aren’t focused enough on making the cars that Indians want. Indians prefer their cars smaller and cheaper than the pricier sedans and SUVs that are popular in other markets. Maruti Suzuki India, which is majority-owned by Japan’s Suzuki, for example, sells eight models in the A and B vehicle size classes, which include microcars and subcompacts, while companies like Honda and Toyota have only two such offerings. Maruti has a 43 percent share of the premium hatchback market, which is the most popular segment in India, representing one out of every five cars sold. By contrast, Hyundai is the only foreign company with a more than 10 percent share of the segment. The differential is even wider when it comes to compact hatchbacks: Maruti accounts for 48 percent, while Honda, Ford, Toyota, Volkswagen and Renault-Nissan have zero. The second reason is that it’s not just about selling cars in Mumbai or Delhi. The appetite for cars in rural areas has grown tremendously in recent years, and already accounts for 30 percent of the total market. As a result, it’s crucial to have a far-reaching distribution network in the country to give rural buyers confidence that they can get needed repairs in a timely way. Maruti has 1,200 dealerships nationwide, more than three times the number of any other foreign company. By comparison, Hyundai has fewer than 400 dealerships, while companies like Honda, Volkswagen and Nissan don’t even top 200. According to the analysts, only a handful of foreign manufacturers are positioned to make a dent in the Indian market any time soon. Hyundai seems to have the best shot: It offers more small models, such as the popular Santro and i10, and has more dealerships than its non-local counterparts. Still, Hyundai has yet to offer a compact sedan, a segment that accounts for 15 percent of the Indian market, and it lagged on rolling out diesel versions of its hatchbacks. Renault-Nissan also appears ready to mount a threat to Maruti. Chairman and CEO Carlos Ghosn has shown his commitment to India by visiting frequently, investing heavily, and making his Datsun brand the only new entrant expected in the country’s A-segment this year. Ghosn announced in 2013 that Renault and Nissan would invest $2.5 billion in India over the next five years. Finally, Honda also seems likely to continue boosting its share of the Indian market. The company already benefits from strong brand recognition in the country, in large part due to its popular motorcycles, scooters and engines. It is developing a diesel engine specifically for the Indian market and also plans to launch new hatchbacks, SUVs and sedans in the country between now and next year—six models in total. As for the rest of the global automakers, it’s just been a small success here and an even smaller success there. Ford has made some progress with a compact SUV called the EcoSport, as has Toyota with Fortuner, a large SUV. But there are only so many Indians who can afford these larger vehicles, putting an upper bound on potential market share. (On the other hand, even less-wealthy Indian car buyers don’t like to buy the cheapest of the cheap: Tata Motors. offers a decent selection of small vehicles and also has a good distribution network. But the company has a weak brand among Indians, who think of their vehicles as low quality. Its market share has fallen from 18 percent to 8 percent in the past five years. Mahindra &amp; Mahindra, an Indian automobile manufacturing company, known mostly for its sport-utility vehicles, has a strong distribution network, and consumers like the brand. But it hasn’t been able to expand past the role of a niche SUV manufacturer.) Some foreign companies, such as Toyota and Volkswagen, seem to be waiting for the market to come to them—in other words, for consumer preferences in the Indian market to start resembling those of other nations. Toyota, for example, doesn’t have a product in its portfolio that would entice Indian small-car buyers, and hasn’t made the large investment required to manufacture one just for India. But the longer they wait, the further they’ll fall behind the reigning manufacturer. “Maruti’s understanding of the Indian consumer is what separates them from the rest,” says Chawla. It really is that simple: Give the people what they want. FREE AppDownload
