REUTERS/StringerA staff member plays a shot towards a putting green on a lake from a tee ground on top of a hill, at Zhangjiajie, Hunan province.The month and the quarter end on Tuesday, which means we've got lots economic data coming. This week comes reports on US home prices, auto sales, manufacturing and jobs. We'll also get monthly manufacturing reports from around the world. Economists expect the reports to reflect an ongoing divergence in the world: the US growing at a healthy clip, Europe and Japan stumbling, and the emerging markets decelerating rapidly. In its new monthly economic report, Citi Research analysts cut their forecast for 2015 global GDP growth to 3.3%, and their adjustments reflect the divergence theme. "We make notable downgrades this month to 2014-15 growth forecasts for Argentina, Brazil, China, Denmark, Japan, Romania, Russia, South Africa and Switzerland, partly balanced by a 0.2 percent upgrade to our 2014 US growth forecast (to 2.3% from 2.1% last month)," Citi's Michael Saunders wrote Wednesday. "In all, we are cutting our EM growth forecast by 0.2 percent for 2014 and by 0.3 percent for 2015 — and this is the biggest monthly downgrade to our overall forecast for EM GDP growth in the current year and next year since mid-2011." We'll probably continue to hear a lot about this asynchronous global recovery, especially as the world's central banks take monetary policy in different directions. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street's equity strategists have been offering guidance on how to invest in advance of the Federal Reserve's first rate hike. However, they stress that moves in the stock market are much more about other macro factors. Here's Deutsche Bank's David Bianco: "Stocks typically sell-off on the first of a series of rate hikes, but the magnitude and duration of the sell-off depend on conditions. During early cycle hikes the initial sell-off was generally small, quickly recovered and further S&amp;P gains came in next three months and longer (like 2004, 1983, 1972). But many sell- offs on late cycle hikes became corrections or even bear markets. Determining whether it’s early or late in the cycle is subjective, but the shape of the curve, inflation measures, years since the last recession can help. Next year is likely another mid-cycle year and we don’t expect a severe S&amp;P reaction to hikes, but the risk is the Fed hikes too late or too little and inflation accelerates requiring the Fed to hike to levels higher than expected." Here's Fundstrat Global Advisors' Tom Lee: "Analysis of 14 rates cycles since 1954 argues that markets typically respond to variations in underlying economic conditions and not to the Fed rate hike itself. While market behavior is overall pretty consistent across the cycles prior to a hike (up 79% of the time), post-hike we saw surprising divergences of market and sector behavior due to the underlying growth, inflation, and investment conditions that prevailed at the time. The bottom line...nearly best-case conditions for stocks today. To cut to the chase, conditions today are almost optimal (low growth/low inflation/low investment) and suggest a significantly better performing stock market in the upcoming tightening cycle. In other words, do not despair." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
