At the beginning of the year, many investors believed analysts’ forecasts for a faster pace of earnings growth combined with lower valuations would lead to stocks in Europe and Japan outperforming U.S. stocks. Now those earnings forecasts are being cut sharply, raising the questions of how much of a value international developed market stocks are and whether they can outperform the U.S. market in 2014. Four times a year investors focus on the most fundamental driver of investment performance: earnings. For U.S. stocks, the earnings reporting season has produced nearly all the gains in the stock market over the past four years with nothing but volatility, on average, during the other weeks of the quarter. The earnings season in the United States is now nearly over with 374 of the S&amp;P 500 companies—representing 80% of the market value of the index—having reported. While the earnings season will only reach the halfway point this week in Europe and Japan, the difference so far between their earnings results and guidance and U.S. markets is striking. High hopes of an overseas earnings rebound are being disappointed, which may be creating a performance headwind. LPL Financial There are three areas of key regional differences in the global first quarter earnings season: expectations, growth, and guidance [Figure 1]. The decline in expectations raises questions about the “discount” in valuation, or forward price-to-earnings ratio (measured by the current price per share divided by the expected earnings per share over the next four quarters). Stocks in Europe and Japan currently trade at about a 10% discount to U.S. stocks [Figure 2]. However, if earnings expectations continue to decline, those forward valuations will climb as the price is divided by lower earnings. This may result in a rise in relative valuations that could significantly reduce or even eliminate the “discount” of Europe or Japan to the U.S. market. LPL Financial That said, with Japan trading at the biggest discount to the United States in the past 10 years, it appears investors may already have adjusted their expectations for relative earnings growth and are more guarded about future prospects than analysts. However, it is hard to see these regions outperforming the United States on ongoing sharp downward revisions to analyst earnings expectations. We remain convinced that developed foreign stocks will have a hard time outperforming U.S. stocks in 2014, but may not lag dramatically like they did in 2013. n This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
