AP Photo/Andy WongFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Things Advisors Should Remember About Emerging Market Volatility (Vanguard)  Investors and advisors should keep two things in mind when they think about emerging market volatility and ways to diversify their portfolios, according to Jim Rowley at Vanguard. "Number one is an emerging market should be a portion of a broadly-diversified and balanced portfolio and that the primary source of your diversification for that portfolio comes with fixed income and primarily investment-grade bonds." "The second thing to think about is if you looked at emerging markets in particular, you know, sometimes we might hear about tendencies of moving out of broad emerging markets and maybe trying to mitigate risk by picking individual countries or smaller regions. And we’d like to warn that that might actually increase the risk in portfolios because individual countries or smaller subsets might actually have more sector concentration or they might have individual stocks that have a greater amount of risk or a greater amount of proportion in that index…" How Advisors Should Approach Clients That Have Suddenly Come Into A Large Sum Of Money (The Wall Street Journal) When people suddenly get a large sum of money for the first time it usually has an "emotional" impact, writes Cicily Maton, president of Aequus Wealth Management Resources, in a WSJ column. "Advisers should structure meetings in a way that lets such clients absorb the maximum amount of information," writes Maton. "Stay away from the straightforward, "You have a million dollars and here's how we will invest it." "Instead, advisers should also do some kind of triage with recipients of sudden money. Find out what is on the client's mind in terms of the most important things to be done. The adviser might know that the client needs to set up an estate plan or open a new bank account. But if they're not on the same page in terms of the client's needs, these needs won't get accomplished. Have the client create a "bliss list" that prioritizes what they want to do with this new money. …Next, the adviser should get an understanding with the client about not doing anything drastic with the money until they have a better grasp of their long-term financial picture." Global Fund Managers See Skills Shortage (Reuters)  A study from State Street and research group FT Remark has found that global fund managers are facing a shortage of skilled labor, report Olivia Hardy and Yousra Elbagir at Reuters.  The survey of 300 executives across Europe, Asia, and North America, found that 64% think there's a "capability gap" that acted as a setback. "There is recognition that clients are driving the needs of asset managers to move in a certain direction but the industry itself needs to evolve to be able to deliver that kind of product set," Andrew Wilson, Head of Asset Manager Solutions UK at State Street, told Reuters.  Here's What The World Stock Market Will Look Like In 2030 (Credit Suisse)  Credit Suisse expects the global stock market will hit $284.2 trillion by 2030. "The United States retains its ranking as the largest global equity market with a (nominal dollar) capitalization of USD 98 trillion, with a weight of 34.6% (representing a USD 74 trillion gain since 2014), while China advances ahead of both the UK and Japan to become the second largest equity market with a USD 54 trillion capitalization and a weight of 18.9% (representing a USD 50 trillion nominal gain from 2014)," wrote Credit Suisse analysts. @CSResearchThe Past Performance Of A Mutual Fund Is Not An Indicator Of Future Outcomes ... 96% Of The Time (Business Insider) Mutual funds usually come with the disclosure that "past performance is not an indicator of future performance," yet many investors ignore this sage advice. Aye Soe, Director of Global Research &amp; Design for S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices, looked at the past performance of 687 actively managed domestic U.S. equity mutual funds and found that few manage to stay at the top.  "Out of the 687 funds that were in the top quartile as of March 2012, only 3.78% managed to stay there by the end of March 2014," according to Soe. "Further, 1.90% of the large-cap funds, 3.16% of the mid-cap funds and 4.11% of the small-cap funds remain in the top quartile." This means that past performance was not an indicator of future results 96.22% of the time. FREE AppDownload
