We first wrote about the “American Industrial Renaissance” in 2012, and it remains one of our favorite investment themes. We continue to implement this theme through small US-centric industrial companies and small financial institutions that lend to public and private industrial firms.  It remains unlikely that the United States will be the manufacturing powerhouse that it was during the 1950s and 1960s, but many factors are suggesting that the US industrial sector will continue to gain market share.  Investors have been slow to adapt to the global sea change. Global growth has slowed more than investors had previously anticipated and political risk has risen; yet over the past four years flows into emerging markets funds have remained very strong despite their underperformance. (see charts 1 and 2).  More recently, investors have apparently begun to recognize the economic and political headwinds facing companies that operate within the emerging markets. In 2013, US equity funds had an annual inflow for the first time in a number of years, but also had slightly stronger inflows than did EM equity funds. Richard BernsteinBecause of the lack of sustained interest in US stocks, the American Industrial Renaissance investment theme appears to still be in its early stages. While recognition of this theme has begun to grow, it has not yet become mainstream. There are many reasons why the US manufacturing sector seems likely to gain market share. Our three main reasons remain wages and productivity, energy costs, and political stability.  Wages and Productivity  Markets do not value assets on the absolutes of good or bad. Rather, markets price on whether fundamentals are getting better or worse. Investors, therefore, should generally ignore analyses that don’t highlight measures of marginal improvement or deterioration.  With that in mind, wages within the US industrial sector seem to be increasingly competitive. For example, manufacturing wages in China increased 18% per year over the 5 years from December 2007 through Dec. 2012, whereas US manufacturing wages rose 2.3% per year (see Chart 3). Richard BernsteinUS manufacturing wage growth has not only lagged Chinese wage growth, it has lagged wage growth in much of the world. Chart 4 compares the compound wage growth for five years (2008 through 2012) for a broad range of countries. US wage growth remains tepid particularly in comparison to countries in Asia and Latin America, whose comparative wage advantage continues to decline. Richard BernsteinUnit Labor Costs are the link between productivity and the cost of labor. When unit labor costs are rising, wages are increasing faster than productivity, which suggests decreased competitiveness. Conversely, when unit labor costs are falling, productivity is rising faster than wages, which suggests increased competitiveness. China’s global competitiveness has begun to deteriorate on this measure. Chart 5 below highlights that despite its well-known productivity growth, unit labor costs are on the rise as wage growth has outpaced that of productivity. Richard BernsteinEnergy Costs Energy is not as large of a factor input to manufacturing as many might expect. Chart 6 highlights that energy costs are generally less than 6% of total expenses for US manufacturers. Richard BernsteinMaterials costs are the most significant expense for manufacturing. Commodities are generally denominated in US dollars, and the fall in many emerging market currencies has accordingly further increased input costs to manufacturers in these countries. Energy is a more significant component of supply chain and distribution costs, and in this respect the United States is also becoming increasingly competitive. The following chart, shows gasoline costs around the world. Middle East countries have relatively cheaper gasoline prices, but gasoline in the US is inexpensive relative to its cost in most countries outside of the Middle East. US gasoline is cheaper than is gasoline in most of the major emerging market manufacturing countries like China, Brazil, India, and South Korea. Richard Bernstein Political Stability Academic studies have cited various relationships between economic growth and political stability. Governments tend to be more stable when an economy is healthy, but significant deterioration in economic growth can increase political risk. Countries sometimes resent when foreigners’ local operations are profitable while the domestic economy suffers. When this occurs, politicians sometimes take drastic actions, such as nationalizing foreign companies’ facilities, to appear as though they are rectifying their domestic economy’s problems. Egypt’s coup was an extreme case, but an increasing number of emerging markets are experiencing some increased level of civil unrest. Political uncertainty appears to be increasing, and companies seem to be considering such risks when locating manufacturing plants. Geopolitical and geo-economic risks, in general, may become a larger consideration for companies searching for locations for new plant and equipment. The US is an extremely safe place for corporations to do business. The American Industrial Renaissance – a secular theme The US is unlikely to be the industrial leader that it was in the 1950s and 1960s. However, it seems very likely that the US industrial sector will continue to gain global market share over the next decade. Narrowing wage differentials, lower energy and logistical costs, and political stability are just some of the factors that investors should consider. We continue to believe that investors are over-estimating the risks within the United States and under-estimating the risks in the emerging markets. If we are correct in that assessment, then the American Industrial Renaissance could be an investment theme for many years. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
