Giles Clarke/Getty ReportageThe bloodiest conflicts in Europe since WWII, the Yugoslav Wars in the 1990s had a devastating effect that some areas still haven't recovered from. The city of Mostar, which now lies in the southern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, still shows signs of war, both physically and psychologically. Bullet-riddled and half-leveled buildings remain untouched and un-repaired, standing as de facto monuments to the lives lost in the region's ethnic clashes. Official monuments to the war have been destroyed, pointing to lingering tensions. Mostar is rich in history. When Bosnia was part of the Ottoman Empire, the city was a crucial stopping point on trade routes to the Adriatic Sea. A centuries-old arched bridge over the Neretva River, known as the Stari Most, was a renowned landmark and became a symbol for the town and the Empire. In 1992, whenYugoslavia was crumbling and multi-ethnic Bosnia and Herzegovina declared independence from an increasingly nationalist, Serb-led Yugoslav government in Belgrade. Bosnian and Croat Mostar soon fell under a lengthy siege from Serb forces. For 18 months, heavily-armed Serb paramilitaries fought combined Bosnian and Croatian forces along a front-line running through the center of town. Later, the Bosnian and Croatian armies began fighting against each other, pushing Bosnian Muslims out of the Western part of the city and causing further destruction and casualties. Many historical structures were razed during the conflict, including the Stari Most, which collapsed under Croat shelling in November of 1993.  Photojournalist and human rights activist Giles Clarke recently visited Mostar to document the current state of the city. Clarke's guide, a former soldier for the Bosnian army, still lives in Mostar. He joined the Bosnian army after it's break with the Croats in 1993. The guide, who asked not to be named, was shot and injured twice during the conflict. "There were 2000 grenades falling a day. Mostar was left in dust and flames," he told Clarke. Unrest still brews in Mostar, despite nearly 20 years of peace. Earlier this year, political gridlock and a down economy sparked protests and riots in Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in Mostar. More recently, elections in Mostar were postponed, due to conflicts between Bosniak and Croat parties.  "It's still divided," Clarke's guide says. "The government is still the same people from 20 years before."  
