REUTERS/Fred ProuserFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  El-Erian: The Global Economy Will Be Dominated By 4 Diverging Powers (Project Syndicate) The world is becoming increasingly multipolar. "In the coming year, 'divergence' will be a major global economic theme, applying to economic trends, policies, and performance," writes Mohamed El-Erian. The four powers include the US, with continued improvement in economic performance; China, with continued structural maturing; Europe, with continued economic stagnation and sociopolitical "disenchantment"; and "wild card" countries such as Russia and Brazil, according to El-Erian. Since these four powers will be pursuing different methods and solutions for their specific problems, the interplay between them will become increasingly economically complicated. Advisers Are Rushing Out Of Convergent After The Former CEO's Suicide (Financial Planning)  Many advisers are leaving Convergent Wealth Advisor. At least seven have already left. Their departures come after former CEO David Zier committed suicide, Ann Marsh reports. "It's mayhem," one former adviser said. The new CEO, Douglas Wolford, wrote in an email that executives were "disappointed" that advisers were leaving, but that this would not affect the firm's operations.  Vanguard Quintupled The Assets In Its Robo-Adviser Platform (Investment News)  "The Vanguard Group Inc. has more than quintupled the assets in its human-augmented online advice platform this year, despite the program not yet being made widely available," Trevor Hunnicutt reports. Assets grew to $4.2 billion by the end of Q3 2014. At the end of 2013 they were at $755 million. This is part of the larger robo-advisor trend. Charles Schwab Corp. is planning to create a "digital platform" next year, and Fidelity Institutional is offering advisers access to two online advisory services. Chinese Consumers Are Going To Change The Global Economy (Charles Schwab)  China's the second largest consumer market — after the US — and that has large implications for investing in the Chinese consumer sector. There are five major trends in the sector. One, spending by China's consumers is sizable and growing. Two, spending on services is expected to rise. Three, online shopping is a bigger deal in China than in the US already. Four, lower income levels are growing, which is creating opportunities. And, five, Chinese companies are preferred over Western multinationals by consumers, Michelle Gibley writes. Although the transition from industrial-led to consumer-led in China may be "bumpy," these trends suggest that the consumer sector will keep growing and that there are opportunities in diversified funds, according to Gibley. Wells Fargo Just Got A Pair Of UBS Brokers (Reuters)  Wells Fargo "hired a Chicago-area team of brokers away from rival UBS AG's wealth management unit, where they managed $463 million in client assets and generated $3.5 million in annual fees and commissions," Elizabeth Dilts reports. The team manages corporate retirement plans primarily, and the rest of the assets are from high-net-worth families. FREE AppDownload
