-Warren Buffett  The quote above comes from an article Mr. Buffett wrote with Carol Loomis for Fortune Magazine back in November of 1999. He was making the case that stocks would inevitably disappoint investors over the coming decade because prices were too high and profit margins could not increase further (beyond 6%) in order to justify those high prices. He was absolutely right about disappointed investors but his prediction about profit margins was woefully wrong. Though they have reverted lower a couple of times since then, today profit margins are nearly double that 6% ceiling Buffett predicted: Jesse FelderIt's important to understand that current stock market valuations, as measured by price-to-earnings, are very high (23 versus a historical average of 15) even though they are being depressed by soaring profit margins. If profit margins were to revert back even to 8%, the top end of their historical range, the resulting decline in profits would mean valuations would become be even more elevated than they are today. So the bull case for stocks over the next decade relies on profit margins remaining at current record levels simply to sustain current high valuations. Jesse FelderThe main problem with this is that it's clear to see from the first chart that, in the words of Mr. Buffett, "it's wildly optimistic" to expect high profit margins to last, "for any sustained period." Just as he suggests, competition and potential political problems (aka, class warfare) will see that they mean revert.  John Hussman explains: I’ve noted frequently that after-tax corporate profits as a share of national income are about 70% above historical norms; that these profit shares are heavily mean-reverting and strongly (inversely) associated with subsequent profit growth over the following 3-4 year period; and that the current surplus of corporate profits is the mirror-image of corresponding deficits in household and government savings. Recent profits data, as well as the entire historical record, are tightly explained by these factors. After the internet bubble, the Federal Reserve came up with a great definition of a bubble. They posited that a bubble is formed when investors, "extrapolate recent price action [or economic action] far into the future." I believe this is exactly what they are doing today: extrapolating record high profit margins far into the future in order to justify current valuations. And just as Mr. Buffett posited back in 1999, they are likely to be greatly disappointed. FREE AppDownload
