Lee/Real Men Real Style Wearing dress shoes with jeans ... is that even possible? I’m here to tell you that it is. The key to pulling off this look seamlessly is to make sure that you abide by a few rules: Three dress shoe and jean rules, to be exact. There are a lot of different kinds of jeans out there. While all jeans are casual, there are some kinds that are dressier than others. Opt for the dressier variety. Distressed jeans, jeans with holes, and jeans with a lighter wash are all ultra-casual and will NEVER go well with dress shoes. Instead, opt for denim that fits well in the waist and the hips. Watch the length of the jeans and see to it that they are not too long and drag. Find jeans that have a more tapered fit at the bottom. Boot cut jeans will not work with dress shoes. Never go with a baggy fit but opt for a slim or regular cut. As for color ,you will not go wrong with dark indigo jeans or even a black pair. To give a quick recommendation, Lee’s salvaged denim dark indigo jeans are ideal. Real Men Real Style It may surprise you but colored denim – provided it is the right fit and length – can work with black or dark brown dress shoes. The main thing to make sure of is that there is enough contrast between the shoes and the jeans so they do not appear to match exactly. It’s not just the jeans that play a part in making sure that your whole ensemble works. It is equally important to be mindful of the dress shoes that you choose. When picking out dress shoes, select a pair that leans more on the casual side. Oxford shoes are great dress shoes but they are on the more formal end of the spectrum and will therefore not work with jeans. Real Men Real Style A better style to go with is the Blucher, Loafer or the Derby dress shoe style. The shape, construction and vamp placement of these shoes lend a more casual vibe than compared to Oxfords. Other options for shoes include monk straps, dessert boots, chukkas and slip-ons will work beautifully when paired with jeans. Even though you’re wearing jeans – the fact you’ve thrown in dress shoes as your foundation means you need to elevate the whole look. A t-shirt or sweatshirt just isn’t going to cut it. Balance out the look with a well-fitted collared button down or dress shirt. Keep your accessories simple. Consider completing your ensemble with a hat if you are confident that you can pull that off, and if wearing the above mentioned dress shirt consider a wool or woven necktie. Make sure that every element that you bring in to your ensemble matches with your chosen dress shoe. Warning: If you are a larger man be aware that dress shoes can make your feet appear smaller. Tread carefully with the dress shoe and jean combination especially if you have a bigger midsection. A solid solution would be to cover up the midsection with a beautifully cut sports jacket. This can bring balance back into the outfit and prevent you from appearing disproportionate. FREE AppDownload
