ReutersMarissa Mayer, Yahoo's CEO.A few years ago, one of the older internet companies hired a rockstar executive from Google to become CEO. The new Googler CEO brought in a bunch other Googlers. The Googler CEO brought energy and passion to the job, infusing a dying internet company with a new culture and a new sense of optimism. The Googler CEO went on an acquisition spree, buying up all sorts of small and big companies. Unfortunately, optimism alone can only get a company so far. The company's results were disappointing. Revenue barely grew, and its core business — display advertising — was going nowhere.  Sensing an opportunity, an activist shareholder group stepped in, bought a big stake and made demands for the old internet company to change its ways. Until today, this story was about AOL and its CEO Tim Armstrong. Now, this story is going to be about Yahoo and its CEO Marissa Mayer. Jessica Rinaldi/Getty ImagesCEO of AOL Tim Armstrong. The activist fund Starboard Value LP has launched an attack on Yahoo. In a letter to Mayer, it says it is "a significant shareholder of Yahoo" and has ideas to "unlock tremendous value for the benefit of all Yahoo shareholders." Here, verbatim, are Starboard's ideas: These are completely reasonable ideas from Starboard. And, if history repeats, they will be happening in the near future.  You see, in 2012, Starboard went after AOL. It had a big presentation about what it wanted AOL to do. The four big takeaways: Today, in 2014, Patch is dead. AOL has invested in its display business properly. The Huffington Post is on its way to being profitable, Tim Armstrong says. REUTERS/Jim Urquhart CEO of AOL Tim Armstrong. How all of that happened is a long and involved story. This is the truncated version. If Marissa Mayer is smart, she'll read the long version, because what happened to AOL is going to happen to Yahoo. Armstrong didn't want to give in to Starboard. He fought and he won, sort of. Armstrong is still the CEO of AOL, but he had to bend to Starboard's will. The first thing he did to fend off Starboard was find some patents laying around that he could sell for $1.1 billion. When that was announced, AOL's shares shot up 43%. AOL returned that $1.1 billion to shareholders.  To keep shareholders happy, as we previously reported, Armstrong made five commitments to AOL shareholders on an earnings call. He said AOL would increase its earnings expectations for 2012 and 2013, distribute 100% of the patent sale proceeds back to shareholders, more clearly report which parts of AOL were doing well and which were not, appoint an independent board member, and, importantly, bring Patch to profitability by the end of 2013 "through revenue and cost improvements." Patch never reached profitability under AOL. So AOL sold Patch.  We fully expect the same sort of thing to happen to Mayer at Yahoo. She will try to resist. She will scramble to find a solution, but eventually she will capitulate.  Starboard's demands are entirely reasonable, and it has the power and the money to make them a reality. FREE AppDownload
