Business Insider reached out to Mohamed A. El-Erian for his views on Russia’s dramatic interest rate hike. Here is a sad reality if you are a Russian trying to cope with an economic recession and a currency implosion; (and it is something that is having a broader impact on many investors in emerging markets, almost regardless of where they are investing and through which asset classes): There isn’t much your central bank can do to engineer a sustainable Russian economic and financial recovery; instead, it falls to President Putin. Russia is caught in what economists call an unfavorable “multiple equilibria” – that is, instead of mean reverting, a bad outcome increases the probability of a worse outcome down the road. Rather than bring in buyers at these substantially cheaper levels, Russian currency weakness is inducing more selling, including by a growing number of worried bank depositors who, instead of holding their savings in ruble, are opting for safer dollars. The larger the extent of this “currency substitution,” the bigger the scope for capital flight out of Russia. This puts even greater pressure on the currency, aggravating the output contraction, imported inflation, and the general sense economic and financial instability. Russia’s current turmoil has been made a lot worse by the precipitous decline in oil prices and the impact of western economic sanctions. While the central bank has a decent foreign exchange buffer (some $400 billion in international reserves), it is hesitant to resume large-scale foreign exchange intervention. This hesitation is not irrational. By maintaining relatively high reserves the central bank hopes to counter the risk that the ruble’s implosion would fuel widespread fears about imminent debt defaults. As such, while it may release some dollars into the system, it is unlikely to open its taps fully. Instead, it will resort to even higher interest rates -- as demonstrated by the dramatic 1 am announcement of a hike in the policy rate from 10.5% to 17%, the largest change since 1998 when the country was scrambling to avert a default. It is also likely to tighten the requirements on the surrender of export proceeds. Such an approach may put some sand in the wheels, including by triggering an immediate currency bounce, but it is not costless. In addition to pushing Russia further into recession, it is unlikely to engineer a sustainable recovery nor will it fully and durably lift the threat of financial instability. The solution for Russia's predicament lies with President Putin. Notwithstanding the detrimental impact of lower oil prices, he can still improve market and economic sentiment by changing course on Ukraine, engaging more constructively with the West, and helping to lift the economic sanctions on his country. As yet, there is little to suggest that Putin is willing to do any of this. The longer he waits, the harder it will be for him to contain and reverse the damage, and this regardless of what the central bank does.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow him on twitter @elerianm FREE AppDownload
