Thomson ReutersPedestrians with umbrellas walk past an electronic board showing Japan's Nikkei average and the exchange rates between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Hideyuki Sano TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian stocks inched higher on Thursday as the prospect of further stimulus from central banks in the region and Europe eclipsed disappointing U.S. data, which tripped up the dollar. Oil prices tumbled more than one percent to a four-year low as hopes for curbs in output by the OPEC faded. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan advanced 0.3 percent though Japan's Nikkei retreated 0.4 percent on the yen's rebound. "I expect a moderate (equities) rally to continue, perhaps led by European shares given signs of recovery there," said Soichiro Monji, chief strategist at Daiwa SB Investments. European shares rose on Wednesday, with Germany's blue chip DAX index advancing for the 10th straight session, its longest such streak in 18 months, as investors bet on further monetary stimulus from the European Central Bank. Investors have also been encouraged by last week's unexpected rate cuts in China and a surprise expansion of monetary stimulus by the Bank of Japan at the end of October, as policymakers in the two countries stepped up efforts to reenergize their respective economies. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has indicated the bank is ready to do more to beat off deflation, and analysts expect the People's Bank of China to take further steps to revive flagging growth in the world's second-biggest economy. On Wall Street, stocks rose on Wednesday thanks to gains in tech shares, with the S&amp;P 500 and Dow industrials closing at records despite the disappointing U.S. economic data. Durable good orders, a measure of business spending plans, fell for a second straight month, consumer spending rose less than expected and new home sales also unexpectedly fell. A separate report from the Labor Department showed initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose above the 300,000 threshold last week for the first time since early September. All of which helped to push down U.S. debt yields, with 10-year notes yield hitting a five-week low of 2.229 percent on Wednesday. The dollar stepped back further from a 4 1/2-year peak against a basket of currencies hit on Monday. The dollar index stood at 87.670 versus Monday's peak of 88.440. The U.S. currency fetched 117.65 yen, off last week's seven-year high of 118.98 yen while the euro traded at $1.2505, having extended its recovery from a low of $1.23595 on Monday. Still, the common currency is likely to be hemmed in by expectations that the ECB could start buying sovereign debt just as some of the world's major banks have done. Vitor Constancio, the central bank's vice president, said on Wednesday the ECB might decide to do so as early as the first quarter of next year, in the clearest indication yet from an ECB policymaker on the timing of any quantitative easing. He also suggested the ECB is likely to buy government bonds broadly in proportion to the size of the euro zone's 18 economies. Oil prices fell on Wednesday after OPEC signaled that it would hold off making any major production cuts this week. OPEC Gulf oil producers have reached a consensus not to cut oil output when OPEC meets on Thursday, a Gulf OPEC delegate told Reuters.. U.S. crude futures hit a fresh low of $72.87 per barrel, their lowest level since September 2010. Trading in financial and commodity markets is expected to be subdued on Thursday as U.S. financial markets are shut for Thanksgiving day.  (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
