TIMEThe Ebola fighters were chosen from a list that included Vladimir Putin and Tim Cook. TIME has announced its Person of the Year for 2014. The magazine awarded the coveted title to people fighting the deadly Ebola virus. From the cover story: 2014 is the year an outbreak turned into an epidemic, powered by the very progress that has paved roads and raised cities and lifted millions out of poverty. This time it reached crowded slums in Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone; it traveled to Nigeria and Mali, to Spain, Germany, and the US. It struck doctors and nurses in unprecedented numbers, wiping out a public-health infrastructure that was weak in the first place. One August day in Liberia, six pregnant women lost their babies when hospitals couldn’t admit them for complications. Anyone willing to treat Ebola victims ran the risk of becoming one. Doctors and healthcare workers have risked their lives to care for those stricken with a virus that has killed more than 6,000 people this year. The outbreak has been confined mostly to three countries in West Africa — Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia — and healthcare workers have faced a stigma from others who fear them because they've been so close to the disease. Ebola symptoms include fever, internal and external bleeding, and organ failure. It's also easily transmittable to those who don't take great precautions to avoid coming into contact with an infected person's bodily fluids. Another look: TIME TIME interviewed Ebola fighters including several doctors, nurses, caregivers, scientists, ambulance drivers, leaders of organizations , and many others. Here's what a few of them had to say.Centers for Disease Control Director Dr. Tom Frieden: “When the cases first hit, we sent in a team, and our team felt that they could control it. But there was some friction with [World Health Organization], which I had to get involved in. Essentially, people thought it was going to be controlled, and they didn’t want us there. So I had to tell WHO, ‘Let our team in, this is ridiculous.’ They wanted to do it themselves. There was resentment. They didn’t want to feel like they were dependent on the CDC. We left, and then Ebola came roaring back.”Medecins Sans Frontieres President Joanne Liu: “I remember very well the WHO saying the outbreak was under control, and it took us awhile to convince them that it was not. The wake-up call came when volunteers from Samaritan’s Purse were infected in late July. Suddenly, Ebola wasn’t such a distant reality for the Western world.”Nurse Amber Vinson: “It was hard to see a lot of the things they were saying in the news. It was emotionally taxing. The media was disappointing in some ways, because it promotes fear.”Nurse Nina Pham: “I replay it over and over again in my head how I could have gotten infected. I did everything that was recommended. It was just a shock when my chief nursing officer and a CDC officer came to see me in their full protective equipment. I knew it was not good.”Caregiver Salome Karwah: “I was in the treatment center for four weeks [and] four days. Really, what made me survive is the support from the nurses. The support from the psychosocial [team] also really helped me…. They were looking for survivors to come and work [at the MSF clinic]. I make it my duty to come. The more I interact with people, the more I will forget about my sad story. The more I share my story with people, the more I will get strong, strong, strong and stronger.”Dr. Jerry Brown: “When it all started and we had a treatment unit set up, my wife did warn me not to enter the unit. So I didn’t tell her. I had been in the unit two weeks without her knowing…. A few days later she noticed changes in the color of my boxers from the chlorine solution used for disinfection when leaving the unit. She said, ‘Ah, what is this?’ I had no option but to confess. We talked about it for some time, and then she accepted it. What she said was, ‘I can’t stop you. I realize this is something you like, so I am not going to stop you. But just be careful.’”Emory University Hospital’s Dr. Bruce Ribner: “Early on in the outbreak, I knew there were people in Africa who had Ebola, and I knew there were Americans there. I also knew that if they were transferred back to the US, there was a high likelihood that they would look at us. Our primary mission is to support CDC workers. But I was not thinking about a civilian until I got that phone call [about Dr. Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol].”Dr. Kent Brantly: “Shortly after I arrived at Emory, [my wife] Amber called from a phone outside my room. I don’t remember that conversation, I was so delirious, but she said to me, “We watched you walk off that ambulance.” I said, ‘You were watching me?’ And she said, ‘Oh, Kent. The whole world was watching you.’”Public-health educator Ella Watson-Stryker: “Guinea broke my heart. I was not prepared for the level of mortality. I wasn’t prepared to watch entire families die. I wasn’t prepared to watch entire villages die.”Nurse Kaci Hickox: "I have witnessed the devastation Ebola causes and have personally experienced the stigma that fear of this disease brings. I do want to go back to West Africa, but for now, I’m taking things day by day."Ambulance supervisor Foday Gallah: “I am going to get on that ambulance. I am going to every nook and cranny of the capital city, pick up whatsoever Ebola patient and take them to the treatment unit, and give them words of hope, of encouragement. And try to educate people about Ebola.”      FREE AppDownload
