Wikimedia CommonsUniversidad de los Andes, Bogotá.Colombia and Argentina are trading economic claims again. Two years ago, the former proudly proclaimed it had overtaken the latter to become Latin America’s third-largest economy in 2012, behind Brazil and Mexico. Argentine economists cried foul, saying the claim, which relied on nominal figures and a black market exchange rate, was therefore invalid. Undeterred, the Colombians have claimed third place for 2013 after Argentina devalued its peso. The Colombians’ rationale: While their country’s GDP of $369 billion trails Argentina’s $485 billion using Argentina’s official rate, it would take the lead under a parallel rate that many economists consider a more accurate gauge. But the truth is, it doesn’t really matter who’s right. What does? The fact that Colombia’s economy is becoming a stronger force in the region and a magnet for foreign investment. While United States’ investors have been singing Colombia’s praises for several years, they’ve been primarily focused on two things: the country’s improved security situation and opportunities in energy and mining. But Colombia is also earning a reputation for sound economic policy ­– one that’s helped it weather global economic turbulence better than many of its neighbors. The country, previously ravaged by drug cartels and civil war, had one of the fastest-growing economies in Latin America in 2013, while inflation dropped to its lowest level in six decades. Combine that with increasing foreign direct investment, and the economy has been well positioned to withstand external shocks. This improved reputation couldn’t have come at a better time. Investors who only recently sought out emerging markets for higher returns began shunning them in mid-2013, when the U.S. Federal Reserve first announced its intention to begin “tapering” its recession-era policy of purchasing government and asset-backed securities. Capital outflows have only intensified in 2014, weakening emerging market currencies from Brazil to Turkey to India. Yet Colombia is in good shape. The peso has fallen 2.7 percent so far this year, but that hasn’t been due to foreign investment flows entering negative territory. “The Fed’s tapering has had an impact in emerging markets, but because Colombia’s macro fundamentals are sound, they have been relatively insulated from capital outflows,” says Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the Council of the Americas, an organization that promotes free trade in the hemisphere. “Colombia’s disciplined macro policy has been buoyed by a favorable business climate that has led to increased foreign investment.” Favorable, indeed. Colombia registered $13.3 billion in incoming FDI in the first three quarters of last year, an amount 13 percent higher than the same period a year earlier. Total incoming FDI for 2012 was a remarkable nine times greater than the $1.7 billion the country recorded in 2003, according to the central bank. Colombia has achieved this steady increase through free trade agreements with the U.S., Canada and Chile and by making ongoing and sustained structural adjustments to its economy over the past two decades. Those include the elimination of currency controls, increased supervision of banks and a policy of maintaining low levels of public debt. The result: Long-term investment in Colombia’s oil, mining, manufacturing and transportation sectors is proving more stable than the equity and debt investments currently fleeing other emerging markets. That breadth of investment, too, has helped the economy withstand another development that’s kneecapping other countries: lower demand for commodities amid slower growth in China. “Colombia’s main trade partner is the U.S. and main export product is oil,” said Credit Suisse’s Colombia analyst Juan Maldonado. “Chinese demand for commodities is more centered on metallic commodities, like copper. In that sense, Colombia’s export structure is not as vulnerable as other countries in the region to lower demand from China.” The Colombians have also wrestled inflation to the mat. Consumer prices only rose an estimated 1.9 percent last year after increasing 2.4 percent in 2012, according to Credit Suisse, a far cry from the 7.7 percent posted in 2008. While inflation could accelerate to around 3 percent this year, interest rate hikes expected later in 2014 are likely to keep that increase in check. Credit Suisse expects the central bank to gradually increase the benchmark rate from its current 3.25 percent to 5 percent by the first quarter of next year. The peso has appreciated around 1.75 percent against the dollar since March 19, after JPMorgan announced it would increase Colombia’s weight in two of its local-currency bond indices thanks to improved investor accessibility and transparency. Credit Suisse noted a JPMorgan estimate that the move may fuel $9.4 billion in extra demand for bonds, increasing capital inflows and potentially giving support to the currency. It’s quite a turnaround for a country that was so violent just a few decades ago that investors wouldn’t touch it. Kidnapping was rampant, the FARC guerilla group often attacked military bases and rural towns, and terrorist bombs routinely went off in Bogota and Medellin. It was, as they say, the stuff of literature: the first few pages of Nobel prize winner Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s “News of a Kidnapping,” recount the abductions of prominent Colombians in the early 1990s by notorious drug lord Pablo Escobar’s cartel. Even in the past decade, government troops have still battled guerillas as the FARC fought paramilitary groups in the countryside. While the violence hasn’t entirely ended—a car bomb decapitated a former government minister’s driver in Bogota in 2012—it’s a far cry from where it used to be. The government is even in the midst of peace talks with the FARC, which has fought the state for half a century. “The reduced violence has certainly led to increased investor confidence,” Farnsworth says. A successful peace process, along with an ambitious government plan to invest in infrastructure, should boost Colombia’s potential GDP by at least one percentage point in the next five years, Credit Suisse says. Strong consumer demand and a favorable outlook for investment led Credit Suisse in March to increase its 2015 growth forecast to 4.9 percent from 4.7 percent. “Colombia has had a lot of years of good macroeconomic management and market-friendly policies.” Maldonado said. “It’s a country that is much better off than 15 to 20 years ago.” If Colombia keeps acting like this, its GDP might just grab a lead over Argentina’s that becomes indisputable. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
