Danny Moloshok/ReutersRichard Branson, founder and chairman of the Virgin Group.They say the early bird catches the worm, and nowhere is this old adage more true than in business. Waking up early allows executives like AOL's Tim Armstrong and Pepsi's Indra Nooyi to get a head start on the day, knocking out tasks before the rest of the world is out of bed. The extra time also gives people the chance to work out and do some of their most valuable creative thinking. Whether they use the time to catch up on email or take their kids to school, these executives all make the most of their mornings. She also uses the time to fit in a workout,&nbsp;according to Laura Vanderkam's "What The Most Successful People Do Before Breakfast."&nbsp;Burns schedules an hour of personal training at 6 a.m. twice a week.&nbsp; Referring to his schedule and work ethic, one exec is quoted in the FT as saying: "Sergio invented an eighth day, and we work it." In that "60 Minutes" special, another exec said: "When it was a holiday in Italy he'd come to America to work. When it's a holiday in America he goes to Italy to work."&nbsp; He kept up that routine during a period in which he shuttled back and forth between Square and Twitter, spending about eight hours a day at both companies.&nbsp; He does his best to use those early hours to exercise before an early breakfast and getting to work.&nbsp; In a speakers series at Pepsi, she revealed that she was at work every day by no later than 7. He takes it easy on the weekends, arriving at the office by 7 a.m. instead. "Once or twice a week, I go for a walk in Central Park with a young person seeking my advice. This is my way of helping bring along the next generation. And if someone is up early in the morning, then they are serious about life. I can't take time at the office to do this, but doing it in the morning allows me to get exercise and stay connected with young people at the same time." She was formerly the CTO of Motorola and has been one of the most highly acclaimed women in business during her career. FREE AppDownload
