Flickr/incase.Ah, millennials. In some circles, we’re known as the generation that wants a trophy just for showing up. The youngsters who expect work without reward. The narcissists who want to move back in with mom and dad because we’re just too lazy and expectant to actually find a job. The brats who are so hopelessly dependent on gadgets that we eschew real human interaction. But look beyond the stereotypes, with the eyes of a marketing genius, and you’ll see a generation that wants so much more: specifically, a $5,000 traveling martini satchel from Tumi and a nice camouflage Prada backpack. Or at least, that’s what banks and trendwatchers expect will become the hot new consumer phenomenon, according to Bloomberg BusinessWeek. HSBC is forecasting that the new lucrative target demographic for consumer products will be Young Urban Males – or Yummies as HSBC calls them. Not surprisingly, given their awkward label, Yummies seem a bit insecure. Young dandies want to flash blue-chip brands as soon as they can afford them, while older consumers closer to the top of the socioeconomic pyramid don’t have as much to prove. The silver-backed master of the universe is secure in his Speedo swimsuit and skin-tight driving gloves; he doesn’t need a camouflage backpack from Prada ($980) to make his mark on the world. This future luxury spending spree by millennial men would come as quite the surprise, given existing stereotypes. Where are millennials – any millennials – getting all this money? We’re the generation that moved back home after college rather than making our way in the world. It may appear silly to talk about an economic “menaissance” right now, especially among the young. The economic prospects of millennials are basically a shambles as it is, and the Great Recession hit male-dominated industries the hardest. How are we supposed to afford Prada when we can’t even afford our own bachelor pads? Indeed, far from having a surfeit of disposable income even on a par with previous generations, recent research from the Urban Institute indicates that Americans between 29-37 have substantially less accumulated wealth than people in that age group did a generation ago. Meanwhile, those in older age groups have done very well in wealth accumulation compared to their peers from previous generations. That means more speedos and skin-tight driving gloves for the silverbacks, but not nearly as many camouflage Prada backpacks for the with-it and hip. But surely, one might say, it’s not the average millennial man who would be in the market for a traveling martini satchel that costs five large, or a dashing new Michael Kors suit. Instead, it would be the young elites from the wealthier sectors of the economy, like tech and finance. But even in these lucrative sectors that are a traditional source of wealth for the stereotypical Yummy, it’s like the song says: things just ain’t the way they used to be. On Wall Street, as in just about every other sector of the American economy, the number of jobs available is in significant decline. According to Business Insider, in 2012 the heart of the American financial sector had 25,600 fewer jobs available than it did before the Great Recession began; just as bad, the jobs that still exist aren’t paying quite as well as they used to. Average pay on Wall Street has declined, both in response to lower profits and the new regulatory frameworks imposed by Dodd-Frank. And given the fact that the payscale for top-level executives is growing (once again, this round goes to the silverbacks), it’s clear that the salary givebacks are occurring at the entry-level spots on the wage scale that would traditionally be occupied by the aspirational Yummies HSBC has sought to describe. The high-tech sector isn’t in any better shape: according to the Ewing Marion Kauffman foundation, business dynamism in tech is declining, and job creation has been especially hard hit since the Great Recession. The bottom line is, the tech and finance sectors are urban and male-dominated, with starting salaries that far exceed the average. These are the types of jobs that would allow a Yummy trend to take off and flourish. And yet, these key industries aren’t expanding in a way that would set the cornerstone of a new consumer demographic. Instead, they’re actively shrinking: there are fewer jobs available, and what jobs are available for an aspirational Yummy pay less than they used to. But what about all the money that millennials are saving by not starting families? Surely this lifestyle choice is freeing up capital to purchase more consumer goods, right? The HSBC forecast is definitely correct that millennials are getting hitched later than their predecessors: marriage rates among Americans age 18-29 have been on a downward trend since the 1960s, and have fallen to 20% according to the latest census data. But social evolution isn’t the only factor affecting these choices: a Pew survey concludes that one in five people age 18-34 say that economic conditions have led them to postpone marriage, and nearly half say they’ve taken a job just to be able to pay the bills. So sure—millennials are delaying marriage, but that doesn’t mean they’re taking that “extra income” and spending it on a traveling martini satchel. It’s not just that the millennial generation’s income prospects aren’t as stable as that of our predecessors – it’s also that getting started on life as an adult has become so much more expensive. Recent college graduates have an unemployment rate that nearly doubles the national average; but even worse, most are starting in a hole. According to the Project on Student Debt, two-thirds of all 2011 college graduates have student loan debt that averages $27,500 when adjusted for inflation. For people with postgraduate degrees, this already harsh figure can be even more stark. “It feels like my generation goes to school and goes into a crazy amount of debt just to work a minimum wage job,” says Irina, 21, a recent graduate of a private design school in Los Angeles. “These days, it feels like our higher education is more of a lottery ticket.” Even those on the older edge of the millennial generation who have established careers are still feeling the pinch. Laura, 30, and her fiancé both work as corporate lawyers on the East Coast. When they started dating, they had about $250,000 in combined school debt. “We have paid over $200,000 over the last couple years and lived on less than half our after tax pay,” she says. “Plus I was supporting some family members for a while. The economy hits and family in need only see the paycheck, not the debt. And it's hard to say no. I'm precarious, but not hungry.” It’s not that the college fund is going to driving moccasins; rather, there just wasn’t a college fund to begin with. Take the case of Andrew, a 26-year-old medical student in Chicago, who will graduate with a quarter million in debt. He says he won’t be able to get married until at least 30, but that’s not all. “Children will probably not come until much later since I want to be in a position to not only care for them while they are growing, but to start saving for their educational future,” he says. Starting a family is a dream at this point for Laura as well. “There is no way we could both continue to work as corporate lawyers and start a family, even with a house. But with our debt we could not change jobs either,” she says. HSBC suggests that any man with a few hundred a month to spare can afford to lease a Lexus. Given the economic conditions of millennials, however, those men may be few and far between. But even if we had that sort of disposable income, is that how we would really spend it? As a generation, millennials are eschewing car culture in favor of walking, biking, and collaborative consumption services like ZipCar – and when we do choose to invest in cars, we invest in environmentally sustainable models. We forgo having our own physical DVD collections and watch what we care to on Hulu and Netflix. And as a generation, we are forgoing the white picket fence in the surburbs that has always been the hallmark of the American dream, and choosing a new urbanism that seeks to connect us more deeply to our built environment. There are many possible reasons behind this new ethic: a lack of economic confidence might make us less focused on owning property, and certainly the rise of technology in the social sharing movement plays a role. But ultimately, we value integration more than accumulation, and make our investments in lifestyle rather than proving a point with flashy luxury brands. Most millennials will never be able to afford a Coach tote. But even if we could, we also know it’s not the key to happiness, and it’s not what we tend to aspire to. As Laura says, “I feel a bit more secure now that I have enough resume to land on my feet if this market dries up, and I've paid down enough debt to start looking at less lucrative but more rewarding practice areas.” Less lucrative, but more rewarding. Now that sounds yummy. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
