eBay reported its Q4 2013 earnings and the stock popped up 9% immediately in after-hours trading. The company is proposing a $5 billion stock buyback, and has received a proposal from activist billionaire investor Carl Icahn to split off PayPal into a separate unit. Icahn also wants two of his people added to the board of directors. eBay says it has previously considered and rejected this idea, and that Icahn has a 0.82% stake in the company. Here are the results: See the full numbers below or read the official press release. Separately, here's the investor slideshow. This is what Donahoe is telling Wall Street on the conference call right now, in reference to the Icahn proposal: I spoke with Mr. Icahn briefly last week to hear his views ...  our board's nominations and governance committee will consider Icahn's nominations in the ordinary course of business. We have an exceptionally strong board... In fact we have a world-class board. ... this is the standard by which all future candidates will be addressed. ... you won't be surprised to hear that this [splitting the company] is not a new idea. ... for example, in 2009, we divested Skype because synergies did not exist. ... based on what we see today we continue to believe that the company, our customers and our shareholders are best served by keeping PayPal and eBay together. ... Our board is unified in its view on this. See eBay's investor slides arguing against the Icahn proposal here. Here is what the company says about the Icahn proposal: Proposal from Carl Icahn — The company also announced today that it has received a notice from Carl Icahn indicating that he has nominated two of his employees to its Board of Directors and submitted a non-binding proposal for a spinoff of its PayPal business into a separate company. The notice stated that companies controlled by Mr. Icahn had, earlier this month, acquired shares and derivative securities that give him an economic interest of approximately 0.82% in the company.eBay welcomes the opportunity to listen to the perspective of all of its shareholders, including Mr. Icahn. His Board nominations will be passed on to the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, which will consider them in the ordinary course of business. We would note that eBay has a world-class board of directors with directors who have significant experience in technology and financial services.Regarding Mr. Icahn's separation proposal, eBay's Board of Directors routinely assesses the company's strategic direction and has explored in depth a spinoff or separation of PayPal. eBay's Board of Directors has concluded that the company and its shareholders are best served by the current strategic direction of the company and does not believe that breaking up the company is the best way to maximize shareholder value. As part of eBay Inc., PayPal is able to leverage the company's technology capabilities, commerce platforms and relationships with retailers, brands and large merchants worldwide. Payment is part of commerce, and as part of eBay, PayPal drives commerce innovation in payments at global scale, creating value for consumers, merchants and shareholders.eBay Inc.'s Board of Directors and management remain focused on delivering sustainable results and driving long-term value for all shareholders.The company will provide additional perspective during and after its quarterly earnings call scheduled for Wednesday Jan. 22nd at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time/5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. PayPal, frankly, is the revenue engine driving eBay right now: Sales went up 19% in both the quarter and the full year, to $6.6 billion for all of 2013. The unit gained 5.2 million new active accounts in Q4 to end the year with 143 million, up 16%. eBay's Q4 and full-year results: eBay This pretty picture makes that easier to understand: eBay This is a breakout of the PayPal/payments' revenue segment: eBay And the guidance: Analysts were expecting eBay to post a 16.1 percent profit increase from Q4 2013, with decelerating growth from its "Marketplaces" (auction) segment and increasing revenue growth from PayPal. The PayPal numbers are particularly crucial because eBay is late to the mobile payments game. It recently acquired Braintree for $800 million and is in the process of acquiring StackMob. Investors are watching for a new sales platform for brands that want to sell directly to consumers, according to the Wall Street Journal: CEO John Donahoe is looking to expand eBay’s marketplaces segment, the namesake business through which customers buy and sell items online. Watch for any announcements on new initiatives. Earlier this month, an analyst said the company was working on a new marketplace site, called “The Plaza,” for brands to sell directly to consumers. Here is what analysts expected prior to the call from the top and bottom lines, per Yahoo Finance: FREE AppDownload
