During their most recent policy meeting, the board members of Mexico’s central bank made a passing reference to violence. Tucked away in the minutes of the discussion, at the end of a long paragraph about global growth and oil prices, the remark seemed like an afterthought in a 15-page document detailing the bank’s decision to keep its overnight rate unchanged. “The recent social developments in the country,” it read, “could deteriorate the level of confidence of domestic and foreign economic agents, having a negative effect on investment.” A mere 33 words in Spanish, but significant ones at that. The reference was to the case of 43 college students in Guerrero state who were allegedly detained by police in September on orders of a local mayor, turned over to a drug gang and killed, their bodies then incinerated beyond recognition. After the attorney general disclosed those gruesome details in a press conference earlier this month, protestors took to the streets, setting fire to part of the iconic National Palace in Mexico City and the state legislature in Guerrero. Newspaper opinion columns spouted scathing criticism of President Enrique Peña Nieto for failing to quell drug violence that has taken more than 70,000 lives since 2006. Mexican finance officials rarely address the impact that the government’s eight-year campaign against drug cartels might be having on investment, so the fact that the central bank mentioned the case at all suggests the case of the students is particularly worrying. The brutality of the crime is alarming, even by Mexican drug gang standards. And, as happens time and time again, it implicates public officials, highlighting the country’s persistent problem of political corruption. Continued protests suggest the case won’t just fade away like bad news in Mexico often does, and that may have a more lasting impact on growth, according to Alonso Cervera, Credit Suisse’s Chief Economist for Latin America. “The straw that broke the camel’s back is how these students were killed,” he says. “It’s worse than a horror movie.” So what, exactly, has the impact of violence been on Mexican growth and investment? A difficult number to pinpoint, to be sure, but the national statistics institute estimated in late 2012 that the cost of crime to the private sector was 1.5 percent of GDP in 2011. That includes factors such as the cost of stolen goods, extortion payments and security measures, as well as foregone investments due to fears of crime. The Sydney-based Institute for Economics and Peace, for its part, estimated earlier this year that the direct cost of containing violence in Mexico was 3.8 percent of GDP, roughly the same size as the country’s auto industry, although that figure is wider in scope, including factors such as the government’s budget for fighting violent crime. But the overall impact is surely even wider than that, if you include measures such as the damage done to local businesses. Hotel operators in the Guerrero beach resort city of Acapulco, for instance, had thousands of cancellations due to the protests. Precise estimates aside, it’s quite clear, says Cervera, that Mexico’s economy would be growing faster, company earnings would be higher and the peso would be stronger if the country were safer. Indeed, GDP growth has been a laggard in the Latin America region, averaging just 2.6 percent between 1994 and 2013. “The Bolsa has had a good run,” Cervera says. “But it probably would have been a better one if Mexico was a safer place.” Is there a point at which foreign investment pulls out completely? After all, the Guerrero incident certainly isn’t the first case of egregious violence in Mexico, and foreign companies continue to invest heavily in sectors such as manufacturing. What’s more, economic reforms in industries like telecommunications helped foreign direct investment more than double to a record $35.2 billion in 2013. One litmus test of whether the violence has reached critical levels will be the level of interest generated by new oil contracts that the government will offer to private companies as part of its landmark energy reform, especially since many of the country’s oil fields are located in dangerous parts of the country.  On the other hand, global energy companies are used to working in countries with deteriorating security conditions, so perhaps it will elucidate nothing at all.  What is certain is that Mexicans seem to be more publicly infuriated than before, directing more angst at the president than at the local authorities implicated in the Guerrero case. “That tells you the level of despair in the people,” says Cervera. That can’t be good for investor confidence. FREE AppDownload
