But the commodities “supercycle” ended in 2013 and seems set to retreat further in the rear-view mirror. The average price of gold in 2012 was $1,699 an ounce, but Credit Suisse commodities analysts say the 2013 year-end average was some 16 percent lower at $1,421 per ounce. Copper prices have fallen sharply too, from $7,971 a ton on average in 2012 to $7,349 this year – a 7.8 percent drop. It’s been quite the precipitous decline: Copper was selling for more than $9,000 a ton in 2010. Mining investment in another major commodities exporter, Australia, has already peaked, prompting a great deal of discussion about how to rebalance the economy. But though Peru, too, needs to think about diversifying its economy, the situation is different – not least because there is still plenty of mining investment in the pipeline. Credit Suisse analysts and other observers believe resource-rich Peru’s strong domestic economy and healthy public finances should ensure a relatively soft landing. Credit Suisse analyst Juan Lorenzo Maldonado pegs Peru’s 2013 GDP growth at 5.1 percent, down from 6.3 percent in 2012. That’s in line with the Peruvian central bank’s forecast, which was lowered from a previous estimate of 5.5 percent in December But he expects stronger, not weaker, growth in 2014 (up 5.5 percent) and again in 2015 (5.8 percent). That’s a comedown from recent years, but still head and shoulders above most of its neighbors. Credit Suisse analysts project Brazil, for example, will grow by a comparatively anemic 3 percent in 2014, up from just 2.4 percent in 2013. Commodity-hungry China, which accounted for about 17 percent of the Andean nation’s total foreign trade in 2012, has been key to Peru’s recent economic success. China spent $7.85 billion on Peruvian goods in 2012 alone, with $4.45 billion of the total going toward copper purchases and another $2.15 billion to other metals. But with China growing more slowly than it once did—after growing at 9.2 percent in 2011 and 7.7 percent in 2012, the world’s second-largest economy coasted in 2013, expanding by just 7.6 percent—Chinese import demand has flagged as well. Total Peruvian exports to China fell 7.5 percent in the first 10 months of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. As lower gold and copper prices translate into lower export earnings, Peru’s current account deficit hit an estimated 5 percent of GDP in 2013 and looks set to clock in at a similar 4.7 percent in 2014. Even at the height of the financial crisis in 2008, the country’s current account deficit was just 4.2 percent. That’s the bad news. The good news: despite those falling commodities prices, mining companies are planning – at least as of now – to stay busy in Peru. In August, the Peruvian Ministry of Mining valued the investment pipeline of 50 major projects that are either currently underway or awaiting approval at $57.4 billion –more than one-fourth of this year’s estimated nominal GDP. About $36 billion are copper projects, while gold and iron ore ventures account for some $7 billion apiece. Chinese companies, which currently back about a quarter of Peru’s mining investments, will continue to be key players. Shougang Corp., one of China’s largest steelmakers, plans to invest $1.2 billion at its Marcona iron ore mine to double annual output to 20 million metric tons, Raul Vera la Torre, CEO of Shougang’s local subsidiary, told Business News Americas. Beijing-based Chinalco recently completed a $3.5 billion expansion at its Toromocho copper mine and is expected to be at full capacity – producing 117,000 tons of ore per day – by the third quarter of 2014, according to press reports. Chinese companies are not the only ones beefing up their operations in Peru. U.S.-based Freeport-McMoran plans to pay $4.4 billion to expand the Cerro Verde copper mine, Canada’s HudBay Minerals is spending $1.79 billion on another copper project, and Australia’s Strike Resources’ expects to spend $2.3 billion on an iron venture, according to the Ministry of Mining report. While these 10-figure investment plans are impressive, there is some concern that falling prices might give mining companies second thoughts when the time comes to actually put shovels in the ground. And it’s not just economics but politics too. In a September report entitled “Peru: A New Normal of Lower Growth,” Credit Suisse’s Maldonado said that deteriorating business confidence in the economy, as well as weak external demand “threaten the materialization of the (projects in the) investment pipeline.” However, business confidence has already started showing a recovery in recent months, and is expected to translate into stronger private investment figures in the coming quarters. The community diplomacy required to move forward with new projects is an important part of both Peruvian politics and the success or failure of mining projects in the country. Local residents adversely affected by mining activity have successfully halted new developments or the expansion of existing mines with large-scale protests. Mass demonstrations in the Cajamarca region over the last two years, for example, forced U.S.-based Newmont Mining and its Peruvian partners to stop construction on a $4.8 billion copper and gold mine called Minas Conga in the northern part of the country. The protesters were worried about environmental damage from the project – specifically, that mines would ruin local lakes. Some hope a recently established government entity called Senace, chaired by environmental officials and in charge of approving mining applications, will better address environmental issues and thus ward off disputes between mining companies and ordinary Peruvians. Government-sponsored negotiations have already helped several stalled projects get back on track, including Xstrata’s massive $5.2 billion Las Bambas copper mine and Grupo México’s $1 billion Tía María copper project. But the Minas Conga mega-mine remains on hold, and the president of the Peruvian Institute of Mining Engineers, a private industry group, estimated last September that the last 10 mining projects postponed because of social conflicts resulted in a $10 billion shortfall for the Peruvian economy. Although mining is the most important part of the Peruvian economy, a number of ambitious public infrastructure projects should help beef up the country’s GDP numbers. Proinversión, Peru’s state investment agency, is expected to hand out 24 major projects worth a tidy $11 billion through the first quarter of 2015. A second runway and new passenger terminal planned at the Lima airport are expected to double commuter traffic by 2030. An extension of Lima’s metro system is also in the works. Those investments should generate jobs and provide a further boost to a newly resilient domestic consumer market. According to the World Bank, some 4.4 million Peruvians rose out of poverty between 2007 and 2011. The newly minted members of the middle class, with easy access to bank loans and credit cards, are spending their wages at newly constructed shopping centers and on services, entertainment and housing. Peru’s Finance Ministry projects domestic consumption will continue growing at around 5.5 percent from 2014 through 2016. Credit Suisse is slightly less optimistic, expecting consumption of 5.2 percent this year and 5.6 percent in 2014. No matter which numbers turn out to be correct, Peru appears on track to avoid a complete catastrophe following the broad decline in commodity prices. If the planned mining investments come to fruition, the Peruvian economic growth story could continue to be the envy of many developing nations. But Maldonado sounds a note of caution about the country’s more distant future in a November report entitled “Peru: Modest Growth Ahead,” saying “we think further efforts are needed to create medium-term sustainable growth rates that are not reliant on mining sector dynamics alone.” In other words, in a world where China is growing more slowly and commodities prices could remain under pressure for some time, diversifying the domestic economy may well prove to be the key to Peru’s success over the next decade. FREE AppDownload
