REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders work in the Goldman Sachs booth on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York May 10, 2010. A new online chat platform aimed at financial firms has already attracted more than half a million user requests, potentially making it bigger than Bloomberg’s messaging service, its chief executive has said. Symphony, which this week unveiled $66m (£41.3m) in funding from Goldman Sachs and 13 other Wall Street institutions, will be offered at no cost for individual users when it launches next year. Chief executive David Gurle said that while the corporate subscription fee has not been finalized, he has penciled in a price of around $30 per user per month compared to several thousands of pounds to use a Bloomberg terminal. “We are going to make sure the price is not going to be an obstacle. To have it offered for free to individual users is a pretty aggressive stance,” said Mr Gurle. A former manager at Skype and Thomson Reuters, Mr Gurle set up a start-up named Perzo two years ago to explore new a messaging platform that would bridge the gap between myriad chat and email products. He soon attracted the interest of Goldman Sachs, which was also working on ways to improve communications between its staff. The development was known as Project Babel until inspiration struck Mr Gurle for a permanent name. “I thought about what the absolute opposite of Babel was, I was listening to The Four Seasons by Vivaldi, which I love, and I realised a beautiful symphony, that was the exact opposite of Babel. It allows everyone to come together,” he said. The Symphony developers have worked with banking insiders to create a filter option that allows firms to monitor chats for keywords that might suggest abuse. This feature will be “way more proactive” than similar services on other platforms, Mr Gurle claimed, and has become more pressing in light of the chat transcripts that have formed a key part of the international investigation into Libor-rigging. He said Symphony has received at least 500,000 expressions of interest in the platform, from individuals and corporations, since its existence was made public in August. “There’s been more requests than I had expected. I think it’s because the problem resonates with far more firms than just those investing [in Symphony].” Instant Bloomberg, the messaging service run by the US media and data group, is widely used in the financial industry. About 320,000 subscribers use Bloomberg’s professional accounts, sending 200 million messages a day. Reuters' Eikon Messenger platform, which offers free accounts, has 250,000 users in the sector. Reuters has said it will work to allow Symphony users to interact with those using Eikon.  FREE AppDownload
