But I get the impression that some people — particularly on the right — see fracking as a sort of magic bullet for America’s economic stagnation. Well, that and the repeal of Obamacare. But I urge caution in equating an America energy revolution with an American economic revolution.  It’s a big economy, after all. And it’s tough for any one thing to make a dramatic, overwhelming impact. For instance: the McKinsey Global Institute has projected that so-called unconventional energy production could support 1.7 million jobs by 2020. IHS Global Insight takes its forecast out to 2035 and sees a gain of 2.4 million jobs. Those are big numbers, of course, but they seem less impressive when you consider that total US employment by then might be 160-170 million jobs. Similarly, people may be overestimating the direct impact of oil and gas product on the US economy in recent years. Goldman Sachs estimates that the sector added roughly one-tenth of a percentage point per year to growth over the past decade. The bank also estimate that “core oil and gas employment and employment directly supported by oil and gas” accounts for less than 1% of total US employment and just 3% of the jobs added since the Great Recession. The spillover effects from the shale boom, at least so far, also seem to fewer than generally believed. Goldman: There is little evidence of significant “induced” employment growth in downstream manufacturing industries. Similarly, cap-ex in energy-intensive sectors that might be expected to benefit most from the shale boom has not outperformed cap-ex in other sectors during the recovery, although it did decline by less during the recession. Researchers who expect a large macroeconomic impact from shale often cite the cost advantage it will give to businesses in the US over those in other regions. Access to cheap energy might therefore influence the plant location decisions of both US and foreign businesses. … [Now] there has been a spike in FDI inflows into energy-related sectors in the last few years. … [But] the magnitudes involved are modest. FDI represents only a tenth to a quarter of total investment in these industries in the US. While the spike in energy-intensive FDI is impressive, at its peak it represented about $50 billion in extra investment per year, less than 3% of US investment spending. Goldman’s bottom line: Whether shale becomes a true “game changer” for the US in the long-run depends on a number of highly uncertain factors, including technological innovation and the level of investment in downstream industries. In the shorter-term, however, we see only a modest boost to aggregate macro outcomes rather than a revolution. Now that report is from late last year. But I suddenly thought of it when reading a new report — whose numbers I use above — on the shale revolution over at VoxEU. From the summary: Our analysis suggests that commentators and policymakers need to better distinguish between the ways in which the US shale gas boom constitutes a ‘revolution’ and the ways in which it does not. The US unconventional energy boom has reversed the decline of domestic production, significantly lowered oil and gas imports, reduced gas costs for consumers, and created a political space for tougher regulations on coal-fired power plants. But it is not a panacea. Even if current estimates of production turn out to be accurate, the benefits to the US economy in the long run are relatively small, and the benefits to manufacturing competitiveness in most sectors are even smaller. Supporting the shale boom is an important element of pro-growth public policy. But this welcome windfall shouldn’t preclude creative thinking about other ways to fix the sputtering American growth machine. FREE AppDownload
