REUTERS/Lukas BarthA girl waves from a window of a wooden house on an parade float during the Oktoberfest parade in Munich September 21, 2014.Even mighty Germany, Europe’s strongest economy, is feeling the pinch of a gloomy European summer. The euro zone’s largest economy shrank 0.2 percent in the second quarter, largely owing to a 4.2 percent drop in construction investment. But Credit Suisse analysts believe the glass is half-full for German real estate, rather than half-empty. And the sector is poised to help bring economic growth back to positive territory sooner rather than later. While German employment figures have dipped and there are signs of consumer malaise, analysts say the economy is fundamentally strong. The 2,000-worker payroll decline in August was too small to budge the country’s 6.7 percent unemployment rate, for example. And investor confidence, which sank to its lowest level since 2012 in July, might simply be the result of a temporary shock from the announcement of harsh new EU sanctions against Russia, which imported €36 billion ($47 billion) in German goods in 2013. More to the point, the construction downturn may be a problem borne of difficult comparisons, rather than true weakness. A warmer-than-average winter in Germany resulted in stronger-than-usual construction in the year’s first quarter, which also left an unusually small construction backlog heading into the second. At the end of the day, the analysts point out that Germany’s wages are still growing, which should bolster both household spending and consumer confidence. All told, Credit Suisse expects the German economy to grow 2.2 percent in 2014 versus 0.9 percent growth in France and 0.3 percent in Italy. An immigration explosion also bodes well for German construction and real estate. Over the past two years, net migration to Germany was 400,000 per year, a sharp increase from the 100,000 average of the past decade. In the first six months of 2014, the number of permits issued for new residential buildings increased 9.6 percent over last year to 136,843. Credit Suisse also notes that demand has finally caught up with an overabundance of housing supply in the wake of the post-reunification building boom of the early 1990s. The evidence: German home prices have risen nearly 20 percent over the past four years. “With completed dwellings declining for more than a decade,” the bank explains, “there is plenty of room to increase further, especially in light of house price increases, which suggest supply shortages.” While housing prices have been rising, Credit Suisse Head of Global Real Estate Research in the Private Banking &amp; Wealth Management Division Philippe Kaufmann noted in a June analysis that those increases were from extremely low levels, and that German home prices remain 20 percent below their long-term average. What’s more, with interest rates at record lows and housing prices still relatively cheap, Credit Suisse expects home ownership, which is less common in Germany than in the rest of Europe, to be on the rise. All of which points to construction’s return to contributing positively to GDP growth rather than dragging it down. FREE AppDownload
