REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueA woman looks up from her voting booth as U.S. President Barack Obama takes part in early voting at a polling station in Chicago, Illinois October 20, 2014.The Federal Reserve finally put an end to its quantitative easing program on Wednesday in a move that had been widely anticipated for a very long time. Meanwhile, the stock market roared back to record highs. This week brings us a lot of important economic data including the jobs report, auto sales tallies, and manufacturing PMIs. The US will also be holding its midterm elections on Tuesday, which should clear out some more uncertainty for investors. Or it might not. "If we have a really uncertain situation, where the Senate is divided and candidates are threatening recounts, that's really not good," said Newedge's Robbert van Batenburg to Reuters. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street's equity strategists are more or less telling clients "I toldja so" in the wake of the S&amp;P 500's incredible rebound from October 15 lows. Like we said above, the focus has shifted to the midterm elections. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco argues that the most important policy issue for the stock market is how the US taxes foreign corporate profits. From Bianco's October 9 note: "Most large US multinationals are exasperated by a high US corporate tax rate and especially by taxes imposed on foreign profits when repatriated. The S&amp;P earns 40% of its profits abroad, up from 15% in mid 1990s. US companies cannot compete effectively abroad if they must pay taxes that companies headquartered elsewhere don’t. The slew of inversions, which Treasury recently rushed to impede, is evidence that US politicians don’t understand global businesses. Executives, while plenty patriotic, have a duty to put the company’s future first. Current US corporate tax rules impede globalization and thus growth everywhere. Visibility on a fix is key post election. The US doesn’t build walls to keep in and it shouldn’t tax like a global empire." As far as stock market returns are concerned, there are obviously always a lot of variables to consider. But generally speaking, the stock markets inclination is to go up. "Since World War II, post-midterm election returns have averaged 17.5%, so time appears to be on our side for returns from October 2014 to October 2015," S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall said.S&P Capital IQ For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
