It’s hard to claim bragging rights for your employment picture if the improvement has largely come from people dropping out of the workforce entirely. “Although the different headline rates of unemployment seem to say one thing, a look at participation rates tell a different story,” says Credit Suisse European economist Steven Bryce, one of a team that published a recent report on employment trends entitled “Not For Lack of Participation.” “While the U.S. does have lower unemployment, you have to take into consideration the number of people who have dropped out of the labor force altogether.” Indeed, Europe’s participation rate – a tally of those working plus those actively seeking work — has increased significantly over the past twenty years, climbing from 65.2 percent in 1994 to 72.2 percent in 2012, according to OECD data. The U.S. participation rate has declined slightly over the same time period, from 76.7 percent to 73.1 percent. That there’s nuance behind the unemployment numbers isn’t exactly shocking news. What might be? The gender-related trends underlying those diverging participation rates. Over the last 20 years, working-age American men have been dropping out of the job market. And in Europe, women have been entering the job market in remarkable numbers. Measured across 12 European countries, women’s participation rates have increased from 55 percent in 1994 to 67 percent in 2012. The changes have been particularly dramatic in peripheral nations: Spain’s female participation rates have shot up 23 percentage points since 1994 to 69 percent. In Ireland, Greece, and Italy, rates have risen 16, 15 and 12 percentage points, respectively. The factors behind European females’ increasing employment numbers are many. For starters, says Credit Suisse’s Bryce, the steady rise in participation since the 1990s suggests a gradual cultural shift. A June 2013 European Commission report also noted that many women went back to work when their husbands lost their jobs during the financial crisis. And an October 2013 discussion paper published by IZA, a Bonn-based labor market think tank, concluded that reforms that promote “flexicurity” – job flexibility and income security – may account for as much as 25 percent of the increase in young women’s participation rates since 1995. The Financialist On the flexibility front, changes in labor market regulations have resulted in more part-time work, which appeals to working mothers when full-time daycare is either unaffordable or unavailable. Participation soared among Dutch women, for example, after their government made part-timers eligible for Social Security and unemployment benefits. The security half of flexicurity typically refers to generous unemployment benefits and job training to keep workers’ skills up to date, but there’s another side of income security, too. In recognition of the high cost of childcare, a number of countries have also introduced tax allowances or benefits for couples with children, direct subsidies for childcare, and parental leave policies. In 2002, Spain began awarding working mothers with children under age 3 a tax credit of about $1,300. And what of the American male? Participation rates among American men between 25 and 54 fell steadily from 93.4 percent in 1990 to 90.5 percent in 2008, before plunging sharply to 88.7 percent  in 2011. “A lot of inactive people should be working, and the relatively low unemployment rates are masking that, “says Credit Suisse’s Bryce. “This has the potential to be a big problem for the U.S. economy.” The Financialist What’s behind the shift? Education might be one thing. Two MIT economists point out that women born in 1975 – today’s 39-year-olds – are 23 percent more likely to have finished college than men the same age. And education goes hand-in-hand with workforce participation: 75 percent of American college graduates are working or looking for work, compared to 59 percent without a college degree and 46 percent of high school dropouts. The MIT economists point out that although both sexes are suffering due to the offshoring or automation of “middle-skill” work  – clerical, administrative, manufacturing and production jobs – women have moved into high-wage occupations, while men are moving into lower-paying service jobs. The authors suggest that some men may be leaving the workforce because the jobs they’re finding don’t pay enough to seem worth the effort. Another explanation: Private-sector unions, which used to fight for higher wages in male-dominated fields, are shrinking. Globalization and automation have also hit male-dominated fields particularly hard. Whatever it is that’s driving American men out of the workforce, it’s quite clear that Europe and the U.S. have been moving in opposite directions when it comes to labor force participation. And the looming problem, according to Bryce, is that working-age people who leave the workforce might see their skills atrophy so much that returning becomes impossible. No one is saying that the European labor market is healthier than that of the U.S. But there’s undoubtedly more slack in the U.S. employment picture than its 6.7 percent unemployment rate implies, with a generation of men in danger of getting left behind. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
