AP Images Post updated below with statement from Atlantic City Mayor. Revel, the most expensive hotel and casino in Atlantic City history, will shut down Sept. 10 after no qualified bidders emerged to bail out the project. CBS' Jeff Kolakowski reports over 3,200 workers' jobs will be affected.  Earlier this summer, the resort filed for bankruptcy for the second time in two years, listing liabilities of up to $1 billion. The development posted an operating loss of $21.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. Revel first filed for bankruptcy less than a year after it opened in 2012. Revel cost $2.6 billion to develop and is New Jersey's second-tallest building. Planned at the height of the pre-Lehman bubble, the project face numerous delays after the financial crisis. The greatest setback came when principal owner Morgan Stanley walked away from its $1 billion investment in 2010.  ingret9/flickrRevel's casino floor. The hedge fund Chatham Asset Management became the project's principal owner earlier this year. The group was unavailable for comment. The AP's Wayne Perry reports this will be the second of four A.C. casinos to shut down this year, which will bring its total down to eight.    Robert Johnson for Business InsiderTwo more casinos will close before the year is over. Atlantic City already has a 13.1% unemployment rate, about double the rate of New Jersey.  The state is on the hook for millions. While no money was invested directly, state officials gave the project a $261 million tax break, with the public getting 20% of the owner's income in exchange. But Revel has never turned a profit. The state's main pension fund also has huge stakes in Chatham and Canyon Capital Partners, another Revel owner.  Robert Johnson for Business InsiderNew Jersey residents are on the hook for millions.  Here's Revel Entertainment Group's full statement via The Philadelphia Inquirer: We regret the impact this decision has on our Revel employees who have worked so hard to maximize the potential of the property. We thank them for their professionalism and dedication; however we are faced with several unavoidable circumstances. Despite the effort to improve the financial performance of Revel, it has not proven to be enough to put the property on a stable financial footing. This situation is compounded by the considerable non-controllable expense structure that has financially burdened the property. In addition, challenges have arisen in our attempts to sell Revel as a going concern. While we continue to hope for a sale of Revel, in some form, through the pending bankruptcy process, Revel cannot avoid an orderly wind down of the business at this time. Update: Atlantic City mayor Don Guardian released the following statement just before noon Tuesday, saying Revel Entertainment may have frozen out potential last-minute bidders: We are disappointed in the decision that the Board of Revel has made as there appeared to be several bidders for the property. While I am not privy to the current facts that led to this decision, I do know this process is a complex one compounded by an extremely short time frame and cash flow challenges. This might be Revel's last chapter, but not the last one for this building. My administration remains committed to the workers, the businesses, and the visitors who are impacted by today’s news. FREE AppDownload
