jurvetson / FlickrShoes that tell runners which way to turn. Bracelets that tell beachgoers which sunscreen to use. All around us, formerly inert objects are being refashioned with the capacity to connect to cyberspace. But while wearable technology for consumers might be most visible manifestation of the phenomenon known as the Internet of Things, it isn’t going to have the greatest impact on the corporate bottom line. That distinction belongs to industrial smart machines. Companies across the corporate spectrum are increasingly using equipment outfitted with sensors that connect to the Internet . The consumer and industrial goods, energy, and transportation industries, in particular, are making increasing use of sensors that transmit usage patterns, productivity levels, location, and even weather conditions. The much more complete view of operations that results allows companies to better monitor equipment use, report unusual problems, and track output, with the ultimate aim of cutting costs and improving productivity. Consider a Siemens’ plant in Amberg, Germany, that produces so-called programmable logic controllers. Smart machines connected to the Internet autonomously control 75 percent of the facility’s production, enhancing efficiency so much that there are only 12 defects per million units produced. In commercial aviation, a GE-Accenture joint venture named Taleris outfits aircraft with sensors that provide real-time information about the condition of parts. That allows the scheduling of maintenance based on actual need rather than the number of trips an aircraft has flown, thereby reducing costs and better ensuring safety. In transportation, there’s the case of NYK Logistics, which handles freight for the retailer Target at an enormous 70-acre yard in Long Beach, California. Historically, NYK used manual labor to track incoming and outgoing shipping containers, with personnel roaming the hub with clipboards and walkie-talkies, tracking inventory by scanning bar codes. When increased volumes rendered such a system untenable, NYK tapped Zebra Technologies to install a wireless tracking system known as WhereNet on the yard’s containers, trailers, dock doors and parking slots. Today, 90 percent of the yard’s equipment is automated and connected to a central database, and the company pretty much knows exactly where everything is at all times. So those are the opportunities. The challenge? Unlike the above examples, most companies haven’t figured out how to cultivate and benefit from machine-generated data. Some 95 percent of the information generated by industrial machines is “unstructured,” meaning that it isn’t organized into traditional data formats and cannot be easily crunched by the relational database software sold by the likes of Oracle, Microsoft, and IBM. And the problem is only getting worse: according to market research firm IDC, the amount of data managed by corporations will increase by a factor of 50 over the next decade. In the meantime, the machines will get smarter. Interested investors can come at the trend from several directions. Demand is fast increasing for the sensors used in smart machines, which are produced by companies such as SAP and Splunk. Industrial companies are also facing an enormous need for software that gives them the capacity to analyze and understand machine data, made by the likes of ZL Technologies, SAS and Inxight.But it’s not just those selling the sensors and the software. Indeed, the companies that are intelligently investing in their own intelligent machines are also worth a look. “You want to consider both sides,” says Michael O’Sullivan, Chief Investment Officer in Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management Division  “Focus on the IT companies making the software as well as in the companies who use these technologies well.” FREE AppDownload
