Traders say the Russian central bank has stepped back into currency markets to halt the rouble's slide as it continued to fall in early trading Wednesday. Here's the evidence — the rouble suddenly reversed its losses in early trading to turn up on the day against the dollar: BloombergThe dollar versus the rouble. The central bank confirmed earlier rumours that it had intervened in currency markets on Monday. On Wednesday it confirmed that it had spent $700 million to defend the rouble over two days after the currency saw its worst falls against the dollar and the euro since the 1998 Russia crisis. According to Bloomberg, this joke has been bouncing around Russian social media: Heard the one about Vladimir Putin, the oil price and the ruble’s value against the dollar? They will all hit 63 next year. The joke is a humorous take on a serious problem that Russia is facing. The country's currency has proved hugely sensitive to drops in oil prices, closely tracking the collapse of crude oil prices, which have dropped by over 30% since June: BloombergThe rouble (orange) versus Brent oil price (green). Since the start of the year, Russia's international reserves have fallen almost $90 billion, to $420.4 billion from $510 billion as of Nov. 21. The country spent $15 billion in October alone buying up roubles in currency markets to soften the impact of the sharp drops in its value on the Russian economy. However, it has been unable to halt the slide as oil prices continued to drop and Western sanctions over Russia's role in the ongoing conflict in Ukraine took their toll. On Tuesday the country's Economic Development Ministry revised down its GDP projection for next year from 1.2% growth to a 0.8% contraction, suggesting that Russia is falling into a recession. The Russian government, along with the central bank, must now decide how much more of its foreign currency reserves it is willing to spend to defend the rouble from further falls. Top of their minds will be the more than $130 billion in foreign-currency debt due to be repaid by Russian businesses over the next 12 months. As the rouble falls, that bill is getting ever more expensive. The battle for the rouble continues...and it looks like the central bank is winning so far. After a sharp snap-back the rouble has strengthened almost 2% versus the dollar at the time of writing: BloombergDollar vs the rouble.  FREE AppDownload
