JanusBill GrossSo, it looks like George Soros just invested $500 million with Bill Gross. In an announcement on its website, Janus announced that Quantum Partners, a private investment vehicle managed by Soros Fund Management, will invest $500 million in an account to be managed by Bill Gross. Soros Fund Management is the hedge fund founded by legendary investor George Soros in 1969; Soros still serves as chairman of the firm.   Following the announcement, Gross said on Twitter, through Janus' official account, that he was "honored" to be managing the new account for Soros.  This account will be managed in a strategy similar to the Unconstrained Fund, which is what Bill Gross manages at Janus, but will not be part of that fund. According to data from Janus, as of October 31, the Unconstrained Bond Fund had $442 million in assets under management. Here's the release from Janus.  Janus Capital Bill Gross joined Janus in late September after leaving PIMCO, the firm he founded in 1971, where Gross managed that firm's flagship Total Return Fund, which had over $200 billion in assets under management. When Gross joined Janus, the Unconstrained Fund had just $13 million in AUM.  Recently, Gross was in the news after Bloomberg's Barry Ritholtz reported that Gross was paid a bonus of $290 million 2013, though PIMCO told Business Insider that figure wasn't accurate.  Gross' exist from PIMCO was one of the biggest shakeups in recent memory in the bond world, as Gross had overseen PIMCO's huge rise that saw the firm at one point control over $2 trillion in assets. But things were going south for Gross at PIMCO well before he left the firm, as the Total Return Fund saw 16-straight months of outflows, totaling $68 billion, before Gross left the firm.  In September, $23.5 billion left the fund. October, the first full month that Total Return operated sans Gross, saw $27.5 billion walk out the door.  And ahead of the outflows the preceded his departure, Gross' performance had lagged his peers, as Gross found himself on the wrong side of a bet that US Treasury yields would rise, not fall, as the Fed continued its quantitative easing programs. Following Gross' departure, PIMCO CEO Doug Hodge reiterated that his departure has not, and would not, affect the way the company functions, with Hodge telling PIMCO clients that the firm's DNA remained "fundamentally unchanged," despite Gross' exit.  In the days following Gross' departure, however, PIMCO appeared to shed past connections with its founder, including apparently deleting all of its tweets that were from Gross.  And since Gross has settled in at Janus, he has returned to his former, mercurial self, writing in his most recent investment outlook to clients, that he is a "philosophical nomad disguised in Western clothing." And now Gross has received a very high-level endorsement.  FREE AppDownload
