Courtesy of Laura NewlandLaura NewlandOn a cold January afternoon during my junior year at Duke University, I sat across from the most intimidating and influential judge I had ever faced — a Goldman Sachs banker and final-round interviewer for the preeminent bank’s summer internship program.  “So, Laura,” the banker, Aidan, said with a cheeky grin. He leaned back in his chair and, as he stared out the window, asked, "Why finance?”  This simple, straightforward question sounds easy. And for the college students doggedly pursuing this career path, it should be. Yet, explaining why I wanted to be a banker seemed far more daunting than facing any of the other highly probable scenarios that make Wall Street interviews infamous: convoluted brainteasers, unpredictable financial trivia, and bullying at the hands of your interviewer. As a 20-year-old who had never taken a finance course, I found it difficult to explain why I found banking interesting without mentioning money, status, or the fact that I simply did not know what else to do with my life. It would be not only shameful but disastrous to admit that after watching so many peers cash in their diplomas, I felt entitled to a piece of the action.  I submitted my application to Goldman just months after Duke’s class of 2008 set a powerful precedent: more graduates took jobs on Wall Street than anywhere else. And little has changed since the financial crisis — among the class of 2012, finance was the most popular industry for graduates of Harvard, Columbia, Duke, Georgetown, and even the University of Pennsylvania’s engineering school. At Princeton, the number of graduates heading into finance was nearly three times higher than the number entering medical school. My college experience was not supposed to unfold this way. When the coveted fat envelope landed in the mailbox of my family’s Alabama home, I had never heard of Goldman Sachs. A bank was that one-story building across from a gas station where my mom deposited checks and I took more lollipops than I was supposed to. Like many wide-eyed 18-year-olds with dreams of changing the world, I entered college with unbridled ambition, only to confront a harsh economic reality: undergraduate loans, the daunting cost of graduate degrees, and high unemployment. It is a common narrative among a generation that has come of age in a society that tells its youth that we can do or be anything but never mentions the suffocating price tag attached to our dreams. I was, unknowingly, a prime target for the Wall Street recruiting machine. The loans I acquired to help pay for college, and my parents’ frequent reminders of their own financial sacrifice, loomed large. And my dogged competitiveness, amplified on a campus of overachievers, predisposed me to the fight for the most coveted, selective opportunity on campus.  The college admissions guidebooks and campus tours — with all their talk of eccentric academic interests, liberal arts philosophies, and geographic and ethnic diversity — had neglected to mention that Wall Street’s most powerful banks would invade campus during my junior year, dangling prestigious summer internships. Or that the consulting industry, which exerts similar influence on campus, would do the same. I never planned to get sucked into the rat race. The odds, however, predicted that I would. The chase for these jobs is not just a defining characteristic of student life but an annual tradition, a rite of passage, and for many the climax of a college career. That I had never expressed an interest in finance should have been strike one against my Wall Street dreams. The banks, however, would manage to convince me that my financial ignorance was irrelevant. The more recruiting events I attended, the more I heard the same reassuring line from Duke-graduates-turned-bankers: “When I arrived at Duke, I didn’t even know what an investment bank was. I didn’t even know the difference between a stock and a bond! And now, look at me — I work at (insert name here)!” My strong aversion to the banking lifestyle was strike two. I had watched too many Wall Street-bound peers put their lives on hold and make significant sacrifices: friends, family, hobbies, and the careers they had expected to pursue. The idea of following in their workaholic footsteps was bleak, yet even this warning flag carried a caveat. The supersized egos, bonuses, and salaries make the drudgery seem thrilling. On a campus of overachievers, the 100-hour workweek has become an exhilarating challenge — the survival of the fittest. If other students can handle it, I reasoned, why can’t I? And then there was strike three: I launched my internship search in January 2009 while Wall Street was self-destructing and bringing the country down with it. There it is. Three strikes. Three reasons to abandon my short-lived investment banking fantasy. I should have bumped Wall Street off my list of potential employers, but I did not.  I looked my interviewer in the eye, sat up a little straighter, and cleared my throat. Then, with effortless delivery, I calmly and coolly tried to convince him why the hell I was doing this. I spoke of craving a challenge, thriving under pressure, and having a passion for numbers. I mentioned nothing of peer pressure, that I found finance utterly boring, or that I was intoxicated by the thought of earning a six-figure income before turning 23.  Although Aidan would know I was lying, this was irrelevant. I had told him exactly what he wanted to hear, what he needed to hear. I proved I could feed the very lines that bankers repeat again and again to convince others, and themselves, that they did not, in fact, sell out.  When I completed my performance, Aidan’s sly grin turned into a genuine smile. “Wonderful,” he told me. “This is just wonderful to hear.” That I was so good at answering Why finance? was the very danger of this question. I had rehearsed and delivered my response so many times, and in such a persuasive fashion, that I had begun to believe it myself. Because Wall Street granted permission to tell a lie, I did not have to face the truth.  Newland, ultimately turned off by the culture of Wall Street, did not end up joining Goldman Sachs or any other financial institution. She graduated in 2010 with a BS in economics and took a full-time position as a management consultant in Chicago.  An excerpt from "Chasing Zeroes: The Rise of Student Debt, the Fall of the College Ideal, and One Overachiever’s Misguided Pursuit of Success." Copyright © 2013 by Laura Newland.  FREE AppDownload
