Screenshot from NetflixA screenshot from the original "Freakonomics" documentary.For a pair of economists, Stephen J Dubner and Steven D Levitt are good company. In 2005, the American duo wrote "Freakonomics: a Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything".  It challenged conventional wisdom by applying economics to a diverse range of subjects, including drug dealing and abortion. Their theories – legal abortion reduces crime; good parenting has a negligible effect on education – were controversial, but the book sold millions of copies. Their third book, Think Like a Freak, was released earlier this month and on Monday afternoon at the Hay Festival, Dubner and Levitt, revealed the tricks that can help all of us think like a freak. "If you are the prime minister of a great nation which is facing possible extinction at the hands of Nazi Germany, then yes, giving up is not a good idea. For the rest of us, however, the stakes are usually not so high. So whether it’s a job or a relationship, we encourage quitting much more often than most people would. "There are two good reasons why people don’t quit enough. The first one is that it’s been drummed into us that we shouldn’t quit. The second one is that the cost of quitting usually comes right away and the benefits come in the future. It’s painful to tell your boss that you’re going to quit; it’s painful to tell your girlfriend that you don’t want to date her anymore and so you put it off and what really makes it hard is that, even if you really want to quit today, you always think: ‘I could stick it out and quit tomorrow.' It’s the tomorrow that really kills you. If you actually faced a deadline which says you could either quit today or never quit forever, it becomes much easier to quit." "When you feel strong emotionally about a problem it clouds your ability to actually understand the data. Let’s say you care deeply about climate change and you’re very emotional about climate change, it’s very difficult to think about the solutions to that because you’re so tied up in the emotional side. "When you’ve come up with a range of possible solutions, we completely believe that you should put your morality and ethics back into it and say: ‘what’s the positive and right thing to do now that we actually understand how the world works' as opposed to jumping to conclusions before you understand. Listen: The Freakonomics authors talk to the Telegraph about Thomas Piketty "For all the idea that we want to do the right thing and tell others, especially publicly, that we will do the right thing, humans are complicated, and solving problems by listening to what people say they want and then doing that doesn’t necessarily work. "Sometimes you have to nudge or trick or knead people into making it easier for people to do the right thing because we know we don’t necessarily do the right thing by ourselves. This doesn’t make us bad, it makes us human." "I [Levitt] went to the Harvard Society of Fellows, which is this incredibly snooty, academic club in Harvard where the only obligation for three years was to show up at dinner and drink really fancy wines with really smart people. The thing was, I didn’t really value the fancy wines and their nightly budget for my own wine was $80 and I wasn't getting paid very much. "They were very surprised when I asked if I could be the guy who ran one of the wine-tasting sessions. I went to the wine cellar and got two very expensive wines of the same grape and went to the liquor store and bought a $6.99 version of the same grape and then poured them into four decanters. We had a blind wine tasting with all the snooty wine experts. The $6.99 bottle did just fine. "The most interesting thing was when I asked them to tell me which varieties of wine had been most different, the most frequent combination was the same wine from two different decanters." Hay Festival in Pictures  FREE AppDownload
