Aktarer Zaman founded the website Skiplagged.com in 2013. It helps travelers book flights using what it calls "hidden city ticketing."  The idea is that travelers wanting to fly from Dallas to Los Angeles, for example, are instructed to book a flight to an alternative destination, say San Francisco, with a stopover in Los Angeles. They then don’t bother to take the last leg of their journey. While it is not always the cheapest way to travel, Zaman discovered that in many instances, it is. Airlines will often offer cut-price fares to attract fliers to regional airports — but they sometimes route these flights through major hubs. The strategy works only for those booking a one-way flight and traveling with carry-on luggage (hold luggage will automatically be sent to the final destination on the ticket). But United, and the US-based flight booking website Orbitz, have said the entrepreneur's "unfair" website promotes "strictly prohibited" travel — and is seeking $75,000 in compensation for loss of revenue. Zaman, a New York resident, insists that he has broken no law and is simply exposing an "inefficiency" in airline prices that has been common knowledge among aviation insiders for years. Hidden-city ticketing "has been around for a while, it just hasn't been very accessible to consumers," Zaman told CNN. Nick Trend, Telegraph Travel's consumer editor, said such ticketing anomalies could also be found in Europe. "Despite the simpler ticketing arrangements introduced by no-frills airlines, there are plenty of cases where savings can be made by being creative — especially from airlines which structure their tickets in a more traditional way. "For example, if you are looking for a cheap single fare on some routes, it can can still be more cost effective to buy a return and not use the second leg. Clever routing can also make you savings on some UK rail fares." Skiplagged.com has launched an appeal on its website for donations to fight the lawsuit and has already raised more than $9,000. FREE AppDownload
