Similarly, the forces driving the second major emerging market selloff of the past year are not exactly a surprise. The first bout of investor flight occurred last summer, after the Federal Reserve indicated that it would start reducing asset purchases in 2013, and the prospect of higher rates in the U.S. started to look more attractive than the riskier developing markets where investors had sought out yield. Now that the Fed has actually begun reducing those asset purchases, it’s no shock that those market pressures have returned. This time around, though, concerns about the health of China’s economy have been added to the mix. And although markets have expected China’s shift to a consumer-driven, slower-growing economy for years, data released Jan. 22 that showed China’s manufacturing sector shrinking for the first time in six months seemed to catch everyone off guard. Not only that, Credit Suisse analysts say there is little indication that the Chinese government intends to intervene with stimulus, as it did both at the beginning of the financial crisis and last year. That’s bad news for emerging market economies in Asia and Latin America that rely heavily on exports to the world’s second-largest economy. Exacerbating matters: Disappointing manufacturing data in the U.S. on Monday that prompted a rush into everybody’s favorite “risk-off” asset, U.S. Treasuries. Over the past two weeks, emerging market currencies from the Russian ruble to the Brazilian real have weakened against the U.S. dollar. Stock markets from Mexico to South Africa have also taken a nosedive, with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index down more than 3 percent during that time. The developed world has not been immune, either. The S&amp;P 500 is down 47 points—roughly 2.5 percent—since the China data came out, and yields on U.S. 10-year Treasury notes have dropped 14 basis points to 2.71 percent. But do we have a full-blown crisis on our hands? Credit Suisse analysts and economists say no, largely because, as we’ve told you before, many developing economies are much better situated than they were during the financial crises that swept through Latin America in the 1980s and 90s and Asia in the late 1990s. “When I think of a crisis, I think about large external debts, currency depreciation that sparks defaults and banking system failures,” Ray Farris, Credit Suisse’s Head of Asia-Pacific Macro Product Research, told investors on a call this week. “We just don’t see [those kinds of] external debt exposures…and foreign exchange reserves are much more comfortable than we’ve had in a couple decades in most countries.” What’s more, even in what seems on the surface to be a widespread freak-out, it’s clear that not all emerging economies are facing equal challenges. Ukraine, Turkey and South Africa, which all have large current account deficits, are in the tightest spots. Turkey’s external debt, which is 44 percent of GDP, makes it the most vulnerable economy of the bunch, and the Turkish lira sold off dramatically against the dollar between January 21 and 27. But on Jan. 28, the central bank stunned financial markets by raising its benchmark one-week repurchase rate from 4.5 percent to 10 percent, and in a single day, the lira made up its losses. Some of the effect has worn off since then, but the lira looks stable for now. Tight monetary policy has also protected the Indian rupee and Indonesian rupiah in recent weeks. Indonesia’s central bank raised rates five times in 2013, while India did so on Jan. 28. At the peak of their respective slides, the rupiah and rupee weakened less than 1 percent and just under 2 percent, respectively, against the dollar since Jan. 21. In Chile, on the other hand, where analysts expect the central bank to ease monetary policy to cushion the effects of a mining industry slowdown, the peso slid approximately 3 percent against the dollar. “Relative performance is increasingly being determined by where domestic policy is acting credibly to resist foreign exchange weakness, mainly through tighter monetary conditions,” analysts note in a report entitled “Macro Playbook: Riders on the Storm.” Considered in that light, currencies in countries with an easing bias look like attractive shorts against the dollar. By contrast, the currencies of countries running a current account surplus, such as Korea and Singapore, are starting to look like compelling sources of value. In response to the fundamental question in any market downdraft – have we hit bottom yet? – Credit Suisse’s Asia-Pacific Equity Strategy team points to one notable statistic. Net foreign purchases of stocks in emerging Asia are currently at 0.3 percent on a rolling 12-month basis – lower than at any point last year, but still higher than in 2012 or 2011. In other words, foreign investors may be pulling back, but they’re still buying more than they’re selling. The price-to-book value of non-Japan Asia stocks has also fallen to 1.45x. While not as low as the 1.42x seen during the 2013 selloff, the ratio has only been lower on four other occasions since 1998. Because Asian economies have relatively healthy current account balances, foreign exchange reserves, and inflation levels, the strategists recommended buying the dips, selectively. And what of developed-world equities? Credit Suisse’s global equities strategists sum up their position in the title of their latest note: “Equities: Hold Your Nerve!” Developed-world growth should keep the global economic recovery going this year. Though the U.S. did just post disappointing manufacturing and payroll numbers, the strategists still believe the economy will grow 3 percent this year, and manufacturing activity has been steadily improving in Europe and Japan. Emerging market troubles won’t likely spread to the developed world, they argue, unless China’s GDP growth falls below 5 percent or the yuan loses at least 10 percent of its value. They don’t believe either scenario is likely this year. In addition, American stock valuations are still attractive. At 6.7 percent, the U.S. equity risk premium is higher than the 4.7 percent Credit Suisse’s strategists reckon is fair value. The strategists also expect U.S. corporate profits to grow 8.5 percent this year and note that 65 percent of companies reporting earnings this quarter have surprised on the upside. For those seeking to capitalize on the sell-off but who are nevertheless reluctant to step into emerging markets, there may soon be a way to do so by domestic proxy. The emerging market selloff has spooked investors in U.S. small-cap stocks, Credit Suisse’s small- and mid-cap strategist, Lori Calvasina, noted on a recent conference call, because investors tend to use these smaller stocks as a way to quickly gain exposure to or rein in risk. The benchmark Russell 2000 index gained 37 percent in 2013, so stocks began the year way up, but it has fallen more than 7 percent since markets moved into risk-off mode. Calvasina recommends holding off from buying until there’s been a 10-15 percent retreat, noting that the average peak-to-trough pullback in the sector is 18 percent. Put it all together, and investors are facing what seems like a manageable situation – and even some opportunities. Of course, if U.S. employment data improve enough that markets start pricing in an early interest rate hike, but manufacturing activity fails to rebound, emerging markets’ chance for an export-led bounce will diminish, Credit Suisse says. It should be an interesting few weeks. FREE AppDownload
