The euro zone economy hasn’t exactly been a fount of good news lately. Yes, funding rates for banks have eased, business activity picked up slightly in October and the currency has weakened against the dollar, favoring exporters. But that’s pretty much it. The truth of the matter is that despite a plethora of easing measures announced in recent months by the European Central Bank, the regional economy is proving stubbornly anemic. New orders, employment and prices are in decline. The economy stalled in the second quarter as the German economy shrank, and the Purchasing Managers’ Index suggests the euro zone only grew 0.2 percent in the third quarter. And so we’re back where we seem to find ourselves every few months, with all eyes on ECB president Mario Draghi, and the next central bank meeting on November 6. What are his options? One thing he can do, says Credit Suisse analyst Christel Aranda-Hassel, is to put the “Q” in quantitative easing. Unlike the free-spending Federal Reserve, the ECB has taken a more conservative and passive role in regard to the size of its balance sheet. But when Draghi announced in September that the ECB was ready and willing to start purchasing asset-backed securities and covered bonds, he also suggested the bank could expand its balance sheet by €1 trillion – a 50% increase over current levels of just over €2 trillion, and right back to its early 2012 size of €3 trillion-plus. The bank also pledged to become a more active manager of that balance sheet. “[We] are starting a transition from a monetary policy framework predominantly founded on passive provision of central bank credit to a more active and controlled management of our balance sheet,” Draghi said on September 22. The hoped-for effect of such a move is to encourage lending, giving a further jolt to the economy as well as inflation. One thing it will almost certainly do is keep the currency weak. The problem, writes Aranda-Hassel in an October 24 report entitled “Size Matters”, is the ECB is going to find it quite difficult to get to that  €3 trillion balance sheet if it’s limited to the measures it’s announced so far. The bank’s targeted longer-term refinancing operations have so far fallen short of analysts’ expectations, with lenders borrowing just €82.6 billion at the first auction in September. While it did resume buying covered bonds on October 20, the last such program pulled in only €17 billion worth. And purchases of asset-backed securities stand to add “tens rather than hundreds of thousands” to the balance sheet, according to Aranda-Hassel. If the bank really wants to use its balance sheet effectively, says Aranda-Hassel, it should consider making sovereign bond purchases à la Federal Reserve. In doing so, she says, the ECB could have real – and sizeable – impact: the euro area has more than 6 trillion euros worth of eligible government bonds, according to Credit Suisse. Short of that, however, the smaller, more incremental moves aren’t likely to arrest the decline in economic numbers. In December, the ECB is expected to lower its 2014 forecast from 0.9% and cut its 2015 forecast sharply from 1.6% to nearer 1%, according to Credit Suisse. Meanwhile, euro zone inflation fell to a five-year low of 0.3 percent in September and looks likely to remain below 1 percent in 2015. “It makes little sense to us to delay a swifter balance sheet expansion,” Aranda-Hassel writes. And what of the region’s banks? They might just be ready for some balance sheet expansion themselves, albeit after a little more bookkeeping of their own. According to results of the nearly year-long asset quality review and stress tests of euro area banks released on Sunday, the ECB identified an extra €136 billion in non-performing assets on banks’ books, an 18 percent increase, and suggested that banks had overinflated the value of their assets by €47.5 billion. Taken as a whole, though, Credit Suisse analysts saw the stress tests results as good news not only for the European banking sector, where equity analysts maintain an overweight that has been in place since July 2013, but also for future economic growth. Only 25 of 123 banks failed the tests and, surprisingly, not a single one of 15 Spanish banks is facing a capital shortfall. “The results remove concerns about balance sheets and allow the managers of most of Europe’s banks to get on with the process of lending,” says Michael O’Sullivan, Credit Suisse’s chief investment officer for the U.K., Europe, Middle East and Africa. For Draghi, that’s welcome news. Given the shape the economy is in, he needs all the help he can get. FREE AppDownload
