REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach ECB president Mario Draghi. The European Central Bank has left rates unchanged, as expected, in its meeting Thursday. Draghi explained the ECB's latest decision, but gave very little on the details of their new asset purchases scheme. There are still no indications of the size of the offering. Here's what he said.  European markets have taken a dive: it looks like people were expecting a little bit more from this announcement. Germany's DAX is down 0.87%. France's CAC 40 is down 1.47%. Spain's IBEX is down 1.94%. Italy's FTSE MIB is leading the pack, down by 2.94%. You can see the impact on France's CAC 40 here: Bloomberg We're also getting some reaction through from analysts now. In a note, Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics said: "Draghi distanced himself slightly from the movements in the 5y/5y forward rate by noting that the ECB looks at several inflation measures. This is no doubt an attempt to unshackle himself from the strong link between policy and this measure ascribed to the ECB following the president’s comments at Jackson Hole." Peter Tchir at Brean Capital adds: "Expect bond markets and equity markets to fade as they don't get what they were hoping for and as much as Draghi will try and make it seem like he has more to do, disappointment will sink in." The central bankers are in Naples, Italy, to announce their latest monetary policy decisions.  The ECB has laid out some of the details of the asset-backed securities and covered bonds it plans to buy. The purchasing plan is going to "include bundles of Greek and Cypriot bank loans with 'junk' ratings, a move that is likely to be unpopular with Germany," as the Financial Times said. The ECB is looking to bring back its balance sheet to around €3 trillion ($3.8 trillion), which would require an increase of around €1 trillion ($1.3 trillion) from where it currently stands. We've got no detail on the size of the purchases, which would have provided a good indicator of whether the central bank can achieve that balance sheet boost. A Reuters poll of Eurozone money market traders suggested that €200 billion ($252.7 billion) in ABS and covered bond purchases are expected. Jefferies' Marchel Alexandrovich expects that a smaller announcement of €80-100 billion ($101-126 billion) purchases would be enough “to signal a serious commitment.” Societe Generale analysts are expecting an announcement more in the range of €130-150 billion ($164-189 billion). The meeting is in Naples today, a part of Italy that has been hit particularly hard by the crisis. There are some sizeable protests, which you can follow on Twitter with the #BlockBCE hashtag.  FREE AppDownload
