US biotech firm AbbVie is to team up with Infinity Pharmaceuticals, a US pharma company, investing US$800m to develop a promising blood cancer drug. The company is also funnelling US$250m into a joint research partnership with Google to develop drugs for age-related diseases. Under the deal with Infinity, AbbVie will pay the company US$275m upfront in cash to fund further development of blood cancer drug Duvesilib, with an additional US$530m in milestone payments. Both parties will be responsible for developing and commercialising the drug in the US. Outside the US those responsibilities will fall on AbbVie, with Infinity receiving tiered royalties on the product's sales-ranging from 23.5% to 30.5%. Duvesilib, also known as IPI-145, is currently being used in clinical trials for a wide range of blood cancers, including indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (phase II) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (phase III). A phase I study of the drug in patients with advanced blood cancers is ongoing and there are plans to launch multiple Phase II and III studies in other haematologic malignancies over the next few years. The deal will add to AbbVie's ongoing expansion in the field of oncology, where it has a total of nine compounds in clinical trials. AbbVie's collaboration with Google will take the form of scientific and clinical development support for Calico, the life sciences unit that was created by the US technology firm last year in a bid to solve the problem of ageing. AbbVie will invest around US$250m in Calico (with Google investing the same amount), some of which will go towards helping the life sciences start-up establish a research and development (R&amp;D) facility in San Francisco. The partners may end up contributing an additional US$500m each to further Calico's research, which will look at areas such as neurodegeneration and cancer. Calico will take responsibility for research and early development during the first five years of the collaboration, while also taking the lead when pushing projects through to Phase IIa of clinical trials for a ten-year period. AbbVie will then be given the opportunity to manage late-stage development activity. Costs and profits will be shared equally throughout the collaboration. These latest agreements mark what is set to be a year of heavy investment by AbbVie, which has already spent around US$54bn buying Shire, a UK pharma firm, in mid-July of this year. AbbVie is hoping that it will be able to use the Shire takeover to move its headquarters to the UK, where corporate tax rates are lower than those in the US. This process, known as "tax inversion", has become increasingly popular among US companies, although a public outcry over the practice has prompted the administration of the president, Barack Obama, to look into ways to crack down on such deals. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
