The seats occupied by mid-life and fledgling Corporate America. Phone cords stretched twenty feet while traders and salesmen spit compliments and hum venom, heels up, jackets off and sleeves rolled up–ready to trade. Across town I hit my direct wire as the microwave transmission shoots across the copper wires carrying audio and control signals. “Hello,” I hear with a chuckle. My equity sales trader clearly thinks something’s funny. He’s like Chachi from Happy Days, the Scott Baio of Wall Street, a regular heart throb and super proud of his Italian descent. I like Chachi, he’s fun, but I’d have to guess the first thing listed under SKILLS on his resume is: Copy &amp; Pasting Instant Messages. I don’t get much coverage. “What’s so funny?” “Nothing,” he says. “I’ll give you 50,000 shares if you tell me.” “Throw in 500 contracts and you got yourself a deal,” my derivative sales person says. I didn’t even know she was listening on the line. She’s a tough chick, Wall Street folklore, worked her way up from the mail room. I don’t argue with her much because I never win. “Fine, 50,000 shares and 500 contracts… Now what’s so funny?” It turns out that Chachi and Mrs. Folklore keep a running Excel spreadsheet on their computers. Whenever they go to the bathroom they take copious notes. I guess it’s sort of like Santa making a list and checking it twice, he’s going to find out who’s been naughty and who’s washing it right. On one tab of the Excel spreadsheet is the name of the employee and there are two columns: Pee-Pee No Wash and Poo-Poo No Wash. So when they enter the bathroom and see one of their fellow employees accidentally forgetting to wash their hands they make a mental note. Then they come back out to the floor and enter it into their system. But they’re still laughing. “Keep going,” I say. Apparently Chachi got cornered at the coffee station with a Managing Director who was on the Pee-Pee No-Wash and the Poo-Poo No-Wash list. Chachi was boxed in, he couldn’t make a move when the right hand reached over and rubbed the top his head like he was an eight year old baseball player. He felt the thumb and forefinger graze his cheek. He almost threw up. So if you are wondering why other employees are avoid shaking your hands, maybe it’s because they’ve seen the Excel spreadsheet. Other helpful hints for Wall Street bathroom etiquette:   FREE AppDownload
