The Economist When workers retire, they need to know that their pension will not only last for the remainder of their lives but will also be robust enough to cope with the ravages of inflation. Old-style final-salary pensions did the trick, for those workers lucky enough to have them. But the rise of defined contribution (DC) pensions means that workers are on their own; employers put money into the scheme but the payout depends on the investment returns. This can be a lottery, as is shown by the chart, compiled by the OECD. It illustrates the retirement income (as a proportion of final salary) that workers might have expected had they put 5% of their salary aside for 40 years in a fund split 60% between equities and 40% government bonds. (The calculation probably exaggerates the share of final salary, as it does not allow for charges or the effect of post-retirement inflation, but what matters here is the variation.) Compare the fortunes of Japanese retirees in the late 1980s with those leaving their jobs today; or the similar contrast between Americans who retired at the peak of the dotcom boom and those who quit in 2012. This variability of outcome helps explain why so many employers have been keen to discontinue defined benefit (DB) plans; under such schemes, they were required to make up any shortfall. Another way of illustrating the problem comes in a paper* from GMO, a fund-management company. Suppose a worker invests $1 in an asset with an average return of 5% a year, subject to an average annual variation of 14%. The mean pension pot after 40 years would be $11. But that number is skewed by a few outcomes in which returns are exceptionally high. The median pot would be $7 and the most likely outcome, the mode, just $3.40. The most important thing for the typical worker is to avoid the worst outcome, not aim for the best. Yet, understandably, few feel they have the expertise to allocate their investments accordingly. As a result many opt for what appears to be the safe option in the form of target-date funds (in America) or default funds (in Britain). These funds are certainly a lot better than the choices employees might make if left to their own devices--placing their entire portfolio in cash or in their employer’s shares, for example. Such funds generally follow a "lifestyle approach" in which the bulk of the portfolio is invested in equities when the employee is young and then switched into government bonds as retirement draws near. But is that the best strategy? GMO argues that the lifestyle approach implicitly assumes that returns from asset classes are constant over time. That is clearly not the case with government bonds. Given the current yields of 2-3% on Treasury bonds, long-term returns are likely to be far lower than they were for an investor in the early 1980s, when yields were in double digits. But it is also true, says GMO, of equities: investors can prosper if they invest more when shares are undervalued and less when they are expensive. The trick, of course, is to identify the moments when shares are cheap or dear. GMO favours the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio (which averages profits over ten years), a measure popularised by Robert Shiller of Yale University. Over the past 130 years, this ratio has ranged between seven and 44 with an average of 16. The Shiller p/e is not a particularly good short-term valuation guide but it works much better over the long term: there is a 60% correlation between the starting ratio and the subsequent ten-year return from equities (the higher the initial p/e, the lower the return). That makes it potentially useful for the long-term process of building up a pension pot. Under GMO’s assumptions, if equity valuations are normal, a 25-year-old would have a 90% weight in equities and a 65-year-old 40%. But when equities look expensive, the weight would fall. On a Shiller p/e of 19, the 25-year-old would have a weighting of 45% and the 65-year-old just 25%. Following this approach would have reduced the chance of the retiree running out of money by the age of 95 from around 50% to 13%. Naturally, caveats are needed. Backtest enough theories and you will arrive at a good result. Whereas we know the historical valuations of equities in retrospect, investors did not know at the time what the range would be. But GMO is right. Now that workers have responsibility for their own pensions, they need to think harder about where to put their money--and when to move it elsewhere. Economist.com/blogs/buttonwood Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
