via The TelegraphArkady RotenbergArkady Rotenberg Of all Vladimir Putin's cronies who are described as childhood friends, few go as far back as Arkady Rotenberg and his brother Boris, who is blacklisted by the United States but not yet the EU. The billionaire brothers have known the Russian President since they were youngsters on the streets of Leningrad, the city now known as St Petersberg. The trio were so close that they practiced judo together at the same city club – but the relationship has now become one of lucrative financial convenience. The Rotenbergs now run SGM, an energy construction company, but they have also executed billion dollar contracts to provide support to Putin's "pet projects", such as the Sochi Olympic Games and Gazprom. Arkady has already been blacklisted by the US. Yuri Kovalchuk  AFPYuri KovalchukHe has been described as Putin's personal banker – and with good reason. As chief of Rossiya Bank, Mr Kovalchuk commands assets of approximately £6billion. One of Russia's 100 richest men, he is a close adviser to the President and the banker for senior officials of the Russian Federation. He has close ties with the shadowy Ozero Dacha Co-Operative – many of whose members are shareholders of Rossiya Bank. The shadowy and powerful society of luxury dacha owners on the eastern shore of Lake Komsomolskoye near Saint Petersburg brings together Russia’s most powerful oligarchs. He has already been blaklisted by the US Nikolay Shamalov Another old friend of President Putin, he is, with the Russian leader and Mr Kovalchuk a co-founder of the so-called Ozero Co-op. He has been targeted by the EU on the grounds that “he benefits from his links with Russian decision-makers”. He is the second largest shareholder of Bank Rossiya, which is considered the personal bank of senior officials of the Russian Federation. Since the illegal annexation of Crimea, Bank Rossiya has opened branches across the territory. Alexei Gromov  via RTE NewsAlexei Gromov  A former Soviet apparatchik then a Russian diplomat in Czechoslovakia and later Slovakia, Mr Gromov is President Putin's deputy chief of staff with responsibility, according to the EU, "for instructing Russian media outlets to take a line favourable with the separatists in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea".   FREE AppDownload
