Courtesy of Zeckendorf Development LLC and Seventh ArtThe triplex penthouse in the yet-to-be-completed 520 Park Avenue building will cost $130 million. On Tuesday, it was revealed that the city's latest most expensive condo will be a $130 million triplex penthouse in the yet-to-be-completed 520 Park Avenue building.   This mansion in the sky will have over 12,000 square feet, a 1,257-square-foot terrace, and gorgeous views of Central Park. It will go on sale with other units beginning early next year, according to Bloomberg, and will be completed with the rest of the building in 2017. The 54-story tower is being designed by Robert A.M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) and developed by Zeckendorf Development Co., the same firms behind the celebrity-haven 15 Central Park West as well as 18 Gramercy Park. It will be nearby other luxury high-rises on the so-called Billionaires' Row, sitting between 60th and 61st Street. There will be a total of seven duplexes in 520 Park Avenue with over 9,000 square feet each and starting at $67 million. Twenty-three single-floor units will make up the rest of the building's condos and will be priced at a more modest $16.2 million with 4,600 square feet, according to the company press release. The building itself will also have plenty of amenities, including a swimming pool, bi-level health and fitness center, sauna, children’s playroom, and screening room. The $130 million triplex will join the Woolworth Building’s $110 million penthouse and the $118 million trio of penthouse apartments at Battery Park City’s Riz-Carlton residences as some of the most expensive homes ever listed in New York City. Aside from the exterior, the only other rendering available shows what the building’s pool will look like. Courtesy of Zeckendorf Development LLC and Seventh ArtA rendering for the pool in 520 Park Ave. See a few pictures of the exterior and interior of RAMSA's 15 Central Park West below to get an idea of the luxuries that may await at 520 Park. Mike Tauber  Mike Tauber  Peter Aaron/Otto  Peter Aaron/Otto    FREE AppDownload
