Reuters After years of booming credit expansion, we're now seeing slower economic growth in China and a rising number of domestic bond defaults. This has prompted many to ask has China's "Minsky moment" arrived? The phenomenon is named after economist Hyman Minsky who articulated that periods of speculation and credit growth inflate assets, only to end in crisis. Societe Generale's Wei Yao was one of the first to write this up a year ago.  Morgan Stanley's Cyril Moulle-Berteaux and Sergei Parmenov, argue that China is approaching its 'Minsky moment' (via Zerohedge).  "In recent weeks, a trip to the region and further research into China’s shadow banking system have convinced us that China is approaching its “Minsky Moment,” (Display 1) which increases the chances of a disorderly unwind of China’s excesses. The efficiency with which credit generates economic activity is already deteriorating, as more investments are made in non-productive projects and more debt is being used to repay old debts." Morgan Stanley via Zerohedge But UBS economist Tao Wang argues that China's "Minsky moment" isn't here. Wang points to a few reasons she thinks China pessimists are wrong. China's first domestic bond default and the recent collapse of a property developer have kicked off chatter about the systemic risk to China's financial system. Wang, however, posits that a loss of confidence in China's shadow banking system would most likely see liquidity "flow back to the banking system (large banks especially), as the latter offer an implicit guarantee and China's capital account is still largely closed." So why doesn't she expect a systematic crisis? Wang expects that the government will ask banks to backstop some of the trust and wealth management products and slowly restructure their debt, rather than "the rapid and market-forced write offs or a spiral of deleveraging that China 'bears' speak of." She also argues that banks still "have liquidity in the form of stable and cheap deposits trapped by a largely closed capital account." Wang expects China's economy to grow 7.5% this year and thinks "fears of an imminent credit-crunch and hard landing will prove unfounded." FREE AppDownload
