Minutes before she was murdered at the luxury Hong Kong flat of British banker Rurik Jutting, an Indonesian woman he had brought home from a nightclub sent a message to a friend saying: "I want to get out of here". The body of Seneng Mujiasih, who also used the name Jesse Lorena, was found by police on the sitting room floor of Mr Jutting's 31st floor home at around 3.45am last Saturday, according to local reports. Ms Mujiasih, who was around 30, had wounds to her throat and buttocks and a knife reportedly lay next to her body. The badly disfigured corpse of a second Indonesian woman, who 29-year-old Mr Jutting is also accused of killing, was subsequently discovered inside a suitcase on the balcony. She is thought to have died five days earlier, on October 27, and has been named as Sumatra Ningsih, 25. Ms Mujiasih met Mr Jutting at a nightclub near his flat called the New Makati Pub &amp; Disco at sometime between 1.35am and 2.15am on the morning of November 1, according to two witnesses. Security footage obtained by the police shows the pair walking in the direction of Mr Jutting's flat, which is around five minutes away on foot, soon after. What happened inside the British banker's home remains a mystery. But The Telegraph now understands that at around 3.25am that morning, Ms Mujiasih used her mobile phone to send a message to a friend - just 20 minutes before police arrived at the flat and found her dead following a call from Mr Jutting. "Something smells really bad – I want to get out of here," the message said, according to a source close to the victim who asked not to be named. The friend received no further messages from Ms Mujiasih. It is not clear what "smell" the victim was referring to or why exactly she wanted to leave the flat. However, following Mr Jutting's arrest, residents of the "J Residence" building where he lived complained of noticing a stench like a "dead animal" in the corridors. Residents later learned the smell came from the first victim's decomposing body. On Monday morning, Mr Jutting appeared for before a magistrate at Hong Kong's Eastern Magistrates' Court for the first time since he was charged with the two murders last Monday. Bina Chainrai, the principal magistrate, ordered two psychiatric evaluations of Mr Jutting and adjourned his case until November 24. The reports were needed to determine "the defendant's fitness to plead," she said. The 29-year-old University of Cambridge graduate looked bored but calm as he entered the court at just after 10am. He wore the same clothes as during a his previous court appearance: a baggy black T-shirt with the words "New York Champion" written on the front in white and silver lettering. He also clutched a black jumper in his hands. He was photographed grinning in a police van as it left the courtroom following his brief appearance. Until recently Mr Jutting was a high-paid employee of Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong where he had moved in July 2013. He was arrested before dawn on November 1 after police were called to his flat, which is located in the Wan Chai district, just a few blocks from Hong Kong's notorious red light district. Inside they found the bodies of Ms Ningsih and Ms Mujiasih, who were both well-known faces at the area's bars and pubs. Mr Jutting was also a well-known figure in the area. On October 27, the day on which police believe the first murder took place, he was seen drinking a pint of beer at one pub and looking "very unhappy". Shortly before meeting his second alleged victim at the New Makati Pub &amp; Disco, Mr Jutting approached another woman and invited her back to his flat. The woman, an Indonesian nanny who asked not to be named, said she saw the banker acting strangely and declined his invitation to return home with him. Asked about the mental state of his client, Tim Parker, a barrister acting for Mr Jutting, told The Telegraph: "We are not going to be commenting." Mr Parker made no application for bail but requested copies of police interviews with the defendant. He told the court Mr Jutting had not "yet" agreed to take part in a reconstruction of the alleged crimes. FREE AppDownload
