BloombergThe yield on the 10-year Treasury note year-to-date.Coming into 2014, almost all of Wall Street's top economists and interest rate gurus were convinced the 30-year old bond bull market was finally ending, and interest rates would trend higher throughout the year. In January, the consensus year-end forecast for the 10-year yield was 3.4%. With the US economy improving and the Federal Reserve ending its quantitative easing program, rising rates seemed to be an easy call. But that call was wrong. This year, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note peaked at 3.05% on January 2. And it got as low as 1.86% mid-October when volatility picked up across markets. Here's a list of the calls made in January that we now know to be inaccurate; some in part, others entirely. However, we found at least three folks who actually got the call right this year. Jeffrey Gundlach, CEO of DoubleLine, told clients in his January 14 start-of-the-year webcast that the 10-year Treasury yield could fall to 2.5% at the end of the year. "I think that there has been an embedded short position against the Treasury bond market of growing size," he said. "And if, for whatever reason, you get some more economic weakness or other drivers to safety that lead to a decline in Treasury yields, I think there could be a major pain trade in store." Steven Major, HSBC's head of fixed income research, said in a 2014 outlook that the 10-year yield would hit 2.1% by the third quarter. It reached this level in the first month of the fourth quarter. Marc Faber, publisher of The Gloom, Boom and Doom report, advised investors to buy 10-year notes. "I don’t believe in this magnificent U.S. economic recovery," he wrote in January. "The U.S. is going to turn down, and bond yields are going to fall." Even as US GDP in Q1, Faber has been largely wrong about the recovery. Still, anyone who bought bonds on that call should be thanking the doomsayer. ------------------- **NOTE: In Dec. 23, 2013 and Sept. 18, 2013 columns, Guggenheim's Scott Minerd said he expected "10-year yields to hit a peak at 3 percent." In the Sept. 18 column, he also said "if history is any indication, 10-year rates may be heading back to 2.25 percent or lower, meaning the bet may pay off." FREE AppDownload
