Wikimedia CommonsA juniper tree on an outcrop overlooking the Grand Canyon.The stock market has run into a rough patch. Since its March 5 high, the Nasdaq is down 8.2%. The S&amp;P 500 is down 3.1% during that same period. Investors can't help but wonder if we're in for a "Wile E. Coyote" moment. But no bull market is without a couple of pullbacks or corrections. And sometimes markets will spend lengthy periods doing the exact opposite of what a rational market "should" do. As you'll read below, there are reasons to remain optimistic about the economy and the markets. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street remains bullish on stocks in the near-term, and many see the recent selling as a buying opportunity.  But the longer-term story is a bit more cloudy. Citi's Matt King warns us of a "Wile E. Coyote" moment "where investors look down and conclude markets are treading on air." It's the scenario in investors come to believe that extraordinary monetary stimulus and loose credit standards aren't strengthening the fundamentals in a way that would justify today's high asset prices. From King: "Try a bit harder, and you could paint a bleaker picture still, in which investors may be coming perilously close to realizing that market levels owe everything to central bank stimulus and nothing to an improvement in underlying fundamentals. What if the much heralded “improvement in earnings to match the rerating in the market” fails to be delivered in coming weeks? How long till investors realize that extra stimulus in Japan might stem the Nikkei’s decline, but is unlikely to generate the economic recovery everyone is hoping for, no matter how large its size? And that the problem afflicting China – that the growth rates to which investors have become accustomed are utterly reliant on an unsustainable expansion of credit – is in fact a problem worldwide?" The good news is that King isn't so gloomy just yet. "And yet for all that we share those longer-term concerns, we still see nothing to suggest that such a “Wile E Coyote” moment is even close to being reached," he said. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
