REUTERS/Shamil ZhumatovRussian fans watch a broadcast of the men's ice hockey quarter-final match between Russia and Finland in the Olympic Park during the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi February 19, 2014. Russia were eliminated from the men's ice hockey competition at the Sochi Games on Wednesday following a 3-1 quarter-final loss to Finland. Kudos, Russia. There is no question that spectacular athletic feats are taking place every day this week on Sochi’s ski runs, half-pipes and ice rinks. Look beyond the glory of hosting the Olympic games, however, and the Russian economy does not similarly inspire. Indeed, it is facing stagnant economic growth, high inflation, a rapidly deteriorating current account surplus and an embattled currency. It’s the kind of performance that won’t get you anywhere near the medal podium, with no sign of improvement on the horizon at least until the second half of this year. The rouble has been hit particularly hard in the emerging market selloff that began on Jan. 22 with news of weaker-than-expected manufacturing growth in China. Russia’s currency weakened some 6.9 percent against the dollar in January, more than that of any other emerging market except the Hungarian forint. Credit Suisse Why so down on the rouble? Because Russia’s current account surplus fell from $72 billion in 2012 to $33 billion last year, while net capital outflows jumped to $63 billion from $55 billion. Meanwhile, the economy grew by 1.3 percent, down from 3.4 percent in 2012. Earlier this month, Credit Suisse dropped its estimate for 2014 GDP growth from 2.3 percent to 1.6 percent – far below the Russian government’s rosy 2.5 percent projection. Manufacturing activity contracted for the sixth time in the last seven months in January, and the decline was the largest since 2009. Don’t count on the Olympics to set the pendulum swinging in the other direction, either, Credit Suisse Russia economists Sergei Voloboev and Alexey Pogorelov say in a report released this week. Moody’s, the credit rating agency, agrees, saying in a report published earlier this month that the Winter Games won’t provide the country with a noticeable macroeconomic boost from this point forth. “Most of the effects from (the) construction have already been felt and were mainly realized at the regional level,” the agency said. In addition to lackluster economic growth, high inflation is hitting Russians in the pocketbook. Prices rose 6.1 percent year-over-year in January, and that eye-watering number was actually a marked drop from December’s 6.5 percent. Real wages grew only 1.9 percent year-over-year in December, compared to an average of 5.5 percent over the course of the year. Voloboev and Pogorelov say slower wage growth is likely to depress domestic demand for at least the next five months. But the pressure on the Russian currency means that the downward trend in inflation will likely reverse itself in short order. Voloboev and Pogorelov cautioned investors that the impact of a weaker rouble has only just begun to show up in the economic data. As of the week of Feb. 10, Credit Suisse estimated that annual inflation ticked up to 6.2 percent from 6.1 percent. But currency depreciation effects won’t start juicing monthly inflation numbers until March, and the analysts expect annual inflation to peak at 6.4 to 6.5 percent in April. Russia’s particular economic problems create a headache for its central bankers. At the end of last year, it was widely assumed that the Central Bank of Russia might cut interest rates to help kickstart the economy. But with the currency under pressure, the capital account deteriorating, and prices soaring, that option now appears to be off the table. In fact, monetary policy is likely to get tighter before it gets easier. At its monthly meeting Friday, the central bank decided to leave rates unchanged, but officials told investors they are ready to raise interest rates if inflation appears unlikely to move toward the central bank’s target rate of 5 percent. It all may seem rather bleak, but Credit Suisse’s forecast suggests this story could have a somewhat happy ending. According to the analysts’ projections, the rouble will keep getting weaker through the first half of this year, bottoming out in May or June.  But eventually, depreciation will tilt domestic consumption toward local manufacturers’ goods and away from imports. Reduced imports should slow the deterioration in the country’s current account surplus in the second half of the year, while an expected rebound in global growth momentum in the middle of the year should help increase demand for Russian exports. Wage growth should also start to trend higher in the second half of the year. Of course, none of these improvements will solve Russia’s primary challenges in their own right. The economy lives and dies by its oil and gas production, and both the country’s politics and its legal frameworks have kept many foreign investors on the sidelines. Still, even in the absence of major structural changes, there’s at least a chance this year will end on a happier note than it began. FREE AppDownload
