Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesHigh-yield municipal bonds seem to be the only fixed-income that is attractive relative to stocks.The track record of the so-called “Fed Model” is dubious at best. The relationship compares the S&amp;P 500’s earnings yield to the yield of the 10-year Treasury note, and there are many other indicators that have a better track record than does the Fed Model when attempting to predict twelve-month forward returns. Despite that caveat, we nonetheless thought it interesting to examine the yield relationships between stocks and a broader array of fixed-income categories. Among those categories, high yield municipal bonds seem to be the only fixed-income that is attractive relative to stocks. The charts in the appendix show the spreads between the yield on a fixed-income asset class and the earnings yield of the S&amp;P 500. If the spread is positive, that suggests that the fixed-income asset class is more attractive than are equities. If the spread is negative, it suggests equities are more attractive. Several points are worth considering: As mentioned, investors may be underestimating the risks of non-US debt and over-estimating the risks associated with high yield munis. Through time we have found some startling mispricings between these two asset classes. Our current example certainly fits that description. Iraq is in the midst of a serious and growing civil war but, as Chart 1 highlights, US high yield munis as an asset class currently trade with a spread more than 150 basis points OVER Iraq! The bond market seems to feel that the diversified aggregate of US high yield munis is actually riskier than are Iraq bonds. (Note that the durations are roughly comparable). Richard Bernstein Advisors We have argued for several years that the US stock market could be in the biggest bull market of our careers, and we don’t think there are many fixed-income asset classes that are attractive relative to stocks. However, high yield munis are very equity-sensitive and offer attractive yields relative to the stock market. We remain amazed that fixed-income investors, like equity investors, refuse to believe that some of the most attractive investments may be right in their own back yards. Richard Bernstein Advisors Richard Bernstein Advisors Richard Bernstein AdvisorsRichard Bernstein Advisors This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
