REUTERS/Toru HanaiDeutsche Bank logos in Tokyo, Japan.FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; shares fell 5 percent on Monday after it posted a surprise pre-tax loss of 1.15 billion euros ($1.6 billion) for the fourth quarter and warned that 2014 would be another year of challenges and reform. Germany's biggest bank said revenue at its strategically important debt-trading division, one of the bank's top money-makers, fell 31 percent in the quarter, dragging down overall revenue from investment banking. Heavy costs for litigation and restructuring also hit its performance, as well as one-off accounting charges. The bank released its quarterly figures ahead of schedule on Sunday night. Deutsche Bank shares pared losses after the open to trade down 4.4 percent, compared to a decline of 0.9 percent by an index of its peers &lt;.SX7P&gt;. The unexpected loss is likely to compound problems that have dogged the bank over the past year, which include a lengthening list of lawsuits and regulatory clashes, and to redouble pressure on co-chief executives Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen to prove a turnaround plan is on track. "This is anything but good news. You've got the high provisions for the never-ending legal problems," said a Frankfurt-based trader. "Deutsche Bank is having a hard time convincing investors about their attempted cultural change."  The bank posted full-year pre-tax profit of 2.1 billion euros, half of the 4.21 billion euros expected by analysts in a poll by I/B/E/S. Litigation alone cost the bank 528 million euros in the quarter, bringing the year's bill for fines and settlements to 2.5 billion euros and lowering its litigation reserves to 2.3 billion euros at year-end from a previous 4.1 billion. Analysts had been overwhelmingly positive about Deutsche heading into Sunday night's profit warning, with 23 of the 36 covering the stock rating it a "strong buy" or "buy" and another seven rating it a "hold," according to data from Thomson Reuters' Eikon. Some retained their optimism on Monday morning. Analysts at JPMorgan said management deserved credit for cutting balance sheet exposure and settling some outstanding litigation. JPMorgan has Deutsche Bank rated "overweight". "Overall, we believe Q4 results show that DB is still in restructuring mode but management has delivered on our wish-list of aggressive exposure reduction, bringing forward of cost savings and settlement of some litigation," JPMorgan said in a note. Citi's Kinner Lakhani told clients that even though Deutsche's story was "two steps forward, one step back" the shares still offered significant upside potential for patient investors. Before Monday, Deutsche Bank shares had rallied 13 percent so far in 2014, the same as the wider Dow Jones index of European banking stocks &lt;.SX7P&gt;. ($1 = 0.7376 euros) (Reporting by Thomas Atkins; additional reporting by Laura Noonan; editing by Jonathan Gould and Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
