Bloomberg/ Drew KerrLeon Cooperman of Omega Advisors and Howard Marks of Oaktree just finished a panel at Bloomberg's Most Influential Summit. Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle was the moderator. The two titans, who have known each other for 40 years, spoke about the market and the state of the hedge fund industry.  Marks said with interest rates down, people had migrated out along the risk curve. He said that they forget to be cautious. Marks then made a Warren Buffett reference. "Buffett says, 'The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with which we should conduct ours.' There's not that much prudence around; it's our job to be prudent," Marks said. Cooperman said he thought the stock market was "fairly valued."  "I think the stock market is fairly valued, not overvalued, but not priced to perfection." He paraphrased John Templeton's observation that bull markets were "born in despair, grow amid skepticism,  mature in optimism, and they die amid euphoria." He said the current state was "somewhere between skepticism and optimism." He said with the exception of the IPO market and a handful of publicly traded companies, there's no indication of "euphoria" being priced into the market.  Cooperman said bonds, however, were "overvalued."  Marks said that interest rates were "unnaturally low," which implies that bond prices were "unnaturally high." Cooperman said half the fund managers were "playing little league" the last time the Federal Reserve raised rates.  "There might be 11,000 hedge funds out there, but they're not run by 11,000 geniuses," Marks said. Cooperman said more people were going into the hedge fund business than deserve to go into the industry but that at the end of the day there was a weedout process.  Cooperman said that the higher your fees, the harder it is to achieve your objectives. He said that he had lower fees than the industry's standard "2 and 20." He gets his "jollies" by doing well for his investors.   "Money will go where money is treated best."  FREE AppDownload
