Flickr / Jan Willem van WesselWith summer quickly approaching, it’s about time to hit the beach. What should you read? J.P. Morgan Chase might be the most well-read bank in the world, and they have some suggestions for you. Not only does the bank give its interns a daunting reading list, but it also gives its rich clients a list of suggestions as well. Darin Oduyoye, who heads up communications for J.P. Morgan’s Asset Management division, says the list was started as a way to keep in touch with clients throughout the summer. Getting on the famous list is about as easy as becoming a millionaire: 568 titles were submitted from J.P. Morgan Asset Management offices around the world this year and reviewed by a 16-person committee that must have done nothing but read for a year. That’s 35 books per person, fewer than the 161 I read in the past year, but still way above average. When the list first came out, the competition was easier, with only 115 recommendations vying for the coveted 10 spots. Even the CEO, Jamie Dimon, chimes in with suggestions. Here’s this year’s list of summer reading for the bank’s wealthy clients: Art &amp; Place: Site-Specific Art of the Americas From the world’s premier publisher of books on the visual arts comes a stunning volume that will delight art lovers and art collectors. Art &amp; Place takes readers to 60 cities across the Americas to some of the most provocative and fascinating site-specific artworks in the Western Hemisphere — illustrating the inexplicable link between the chosen artworks and the places they reside. Thrive: The Third Metric to Redefining Success and Creating a Life of Well-Being, Wisdom, and Wonder, by Arianna Huffington Executives around the globe know that money and power can often only make someone so happy. It’s finding the “third metric” that truly provides the keys to passion, joy and fulfillment in one’s life. In Thrive, Arianna Huffington — one of the most influential women in the world — takes the reader on his or her own journey of self-realization. Combining a deep personal narrative with scientific data, Huffington formulates a new model for total well-being. Talk Like TED: The 9 Public-Speaking Secrets of the World’s Top Minds, by Carmine Gallo Go inside the minds of TED’s online presenters. A nonprofit devoted to spreading ideas, TED — Technology, Entertainment and Design — features short, powerful talks on myriad subjects. Public-speaking coach Carmine Gallo pinpoints the top tips of the celebrated community’s most popular presenters. With advice to hone the skills of even well-seasoned executives, Talk Like TED is a fascinating and infinitely helpful look at one of the world’s most common fears. The Metropolitan Revolution: How Cities and Metros Are Fixing Our Broken Politics and Fragile Economy, by Bruce Katz and Jennifer Bradley. Philanthropists, endowments, and foundations are often presented with lists of challenges in American cities — political barriers to growth, lack of economic diversity, immigration. But Bruce Katz and Jennifer Bradley carry the banner for cities that are getting it right. The Metropolitan Revolution highlights success stories from some of America’s most-populous areas and shows that big improvements can happen quickly when people are willing to make small changes. The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies, by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee As societies progress, those who can best adapt to change have the highest chance of success. MIT’s Brynjolfsson and McAfee detail the vast technological changes that are already underway, and provide a look at the potential changes to come. They also unveil a plan of action to understand, cope with and embrace the transformative nature of society today. For the forward-thinking business executive, this is a book that shouldn’t be missed. Things a Little Bird Told Me: Confessions of the Creative Mind, by Biz Stone Who better than Biz Stone to offer advice and inspiration to up-and-coming entrepreneurs and next-generation leaders ready to take the reins of the family business? The co-founder and co-inventor of Twitter provides invaluable insights. Combining examples from his own life, principles he’s learned along the way, and true stories from his experiences at Google and Twitter, Stone presents a well-paced, informative personal narrative on the creative process. The Future of the Mind: The Scientific Quest to Understand, Enhance, and Empower the Mind, by Michio Kaku The secrets of the human brain are revealed in this powerful work by renowned physicist and futurist Dr. Michio Kaku. The Future of the Mind guides the reader on a journey of scientific discovery, illustrating that many facets of the world’s most intriguing science fiction stories — such as telepathy, telekinesis and mind control — may, in fact, already exist. Kaku provides a glimpse into the potential of future and new possibilities as the human mind becomes linked with modern technology. Olives, Lemons &amp; Za’atar: The Best Middle Eastern Home Cooking, by Rawia Bishara Bishara will always be quick to point out that her first name means “storyteller” in Arabic. She deftly lives up to it, taking the reader through tales of her own life and culture, with her beloved cuisine serving as a guide. Bishara has instilled in her book the same warmth and comfort that can be found in her neighborhood eatery, Brooklyn’s Tanoreen. An Astronaut’s Guide to Life on Earth: What Going to Space Taught Me About Ingenuity, Determination, and Being Prepared for Anything, by Col. Chris Hadfield What’s worse than being locked out of the house? Having it happen 200 miles above the surface of the Earth while traveling more than 17,000 miles per hour. Journey with Colonel Chris Hadfield as he breaks into a locked space station, and learn how his NASA training prepared him for the seemingly impossible. Hadfield shares his insights into thinking on your feet and maintaining calm during even the direst crises. The Billionaire and the Mechanic: How Larry Ellison and a Car Mechanic Teamed Up to Win Sailing’s Greatest Race, the America’s Cup, by Julian Guthrie The 34th America’s Cup will be remembered as one of the most exciting and improbable comebacks in the history of offshore yacht racing. But for Larry Ellison, his Oracle Team USA’s first win — in 2010 — will always be epic. This story of an equally improbable partnership between an auto mechanic and one of the world’s wealthiest individuals will captivate sports enthusiasts, amateur yachters, and fans of Ellison’s helmsman Ben Ainslie. FREE AppDownload
