*Budget plans for the world’s major economies in 2015 show that for the first time since 2009, fiscal policy won’t be a drag on economic growth. *Without a drag from fiscal policy, monetary policy stimulus will likely be more effective—providing a boost to global economic growth in the year ahead. *The combination of favorable monetary and fiscal policy is likely to continue to push asset prices higher around the world in 2015. One of the forces holding back global economic growth in recent years has been fiscal drag–or the restraining effect of government budget austerity (spending cuts and tax increases). The intention of this austerity has been to establish a long-term, sustainable basis for growth. However, so far the fiscal drag has helped deepen Europe’s longest recession since the euro began trading in 1999, pushed Japan back into recession in 2014, and acted as a counter-weight to unprecedented monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve in the United States. Now the age of austerity in economic policy may be ending. After years of belt-tightening, governments around the world are easing up in an effort to bolster flagging economies. Budget plans for the world’s major economies in 2015 show that for the first time since 2009, fiscal policy won’t be a drag. Both monetary policy (actions by central banks such as the U.S. Federal Reserve) and fiscal policy have been powerful forces pulling in opposite directions. In 2014: Chalres SchwabWhile monetary policy garners a lot of attention, it is likely to remain broadly stimulative. In fact, on a global basis, monetary policy in 2015 may not change much from 2014. The Fed and Bank of England may raise interest rates in 2015, but central banks in Europe and Japan are ramping up stimulus for the year ahead. They are not alone. In the past month or so, central banks in South Korea, Sweden, Vietnam, Iceland, and Romania all have cut interest rates to spur growth.  Even as global growth continues to be boosted by monetary policy stimulus, the change in global fiscal policy next year may have more impact on growth and be more important to investors. Some examples: When monetary and fiscal policies are pulling in the same direction, the effect on an economy—and by extension stock markets—is clear. But when fiscal policy and monetary policy are pulling in opposite directions, growth is likely to suffer. In the tug of war between monetary and fiscal policy in Europe and Japan, government officials have let go of the rope on fiscal policy. They have made it clear that budget deficits are likely to be little changed in 2015 while aggressive monetary policy stimulus is to be applied. In the United States, slack fiscal policy combined with still-stimulative monetary policy (although less stimulative as rates may begin to rise from zero sometime next year) is likely to continue to support solid growth. However, the United Kingdom is set to pull back on monetary stimulus while also adding fiscal drag by cutting its budget by 0.5 percentage points of GDP. This may have the effect of pulling growth down after a year of above-trend 3% growth in 2014. Globally, economic policy is shifting as we see an end to fiscal drag in what is still going to be a very stimulative monetary-policy environment. The result should be slightly better global economic growth. In general, the combination of these policies is likely to continue to push asset prices higher around the world in 2015. I hope this enhanced your understanding of global fiscal and monetary policy.  This article originally appeared at Charles Schwab.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
