Wikimedia CommonsAs far as corporate quandaries go, figuring out the best way to spend nearly $2 trillion falls squarely into “high-class problem” territory. That doesn’t mean it’s an easy one to solve—for the better part of a decade, corporate America has manifestly failed to land on a solution—but over the past two years, big company executives have finally started rising to the challenge. First, they bought back stock. Now, they’re engaged in an M&amp;A frenzy. And tomorrow, says Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management division, they’re finally going to crank up capital expenditures, making long-overdue upgrades to equipment and factories. Before long, all this surplus cash could be a distant memory. Corporations completed $620 billion worth of share buybacks in 2013, a 32 percent increase over the $471 billion in 2012, and more than halfway back to the $748 billion spent in 2007.Deal making activity is on track to hit a record high of $1.6 trillion this year. Capex, though, has been a little slow going. Businesses cut investment spending sharply during the Great Recession from 3 percent of GDP to less than 1 percent, and have been slow to open their wallets again, despite rising share prices and record profits. While business investment has been edging steadily higher over the last six years, it’s still hovering around 2 percent of GDP. Setting aside the 2007-2011 financial crisis, that’s as low as it’s been since the dot-com bust in the early 2000s. “Both corporate executives and investors were nervous for a long time after the crisis ended,” Barbara Reinhard, Chief Investment Officer – Americas in Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management division. “A lot of people didn’t trust this recovery, and who could blame them? We’ve been through two vicious bear markets in a 15-year period.” But they’re starting to trust it now: In the second quarter of 2014, U.S. nonresidential fixed investment rose 5.5 percent, versus just 1.6 percent in the first quarter. So far this year, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia surveys show that an average of 30.5 percent of businesses plan to increase spending over the next six months, up from 27 percent over the same period in 2013. The portion that plans to cut spending, meanwhile, has declined from 13 percent to 6.7 percent. (It’s worthwhile to note that both figures mark a 180-degree turnaround: Over the same time period in 2009, only an average of 18 percent cited plans to expand spending, while 25 percent said they planned to cut.) Further evidence that there’s optimism in the air: The Conference Board’s CEO Conference Survey index sat at 62 out of a possible 100-points this month, and anything above 50 is considered positive. And more than three-quarters of CEOs expect profit growth over the next 12 months. With aggregate lending standards relaxing over the past two-plus years, banks are seeing higher demand for commercial and industrial loans from companies with at least $50 million in sales. The net percentage of banks citing higher loan demand in their most recent quarter has been positive since the first quarter of 2013. In July’s quarterly survey, 36 percent of banks surveyed said demand for C&amp;I loans from large and middle-market companies had grown over the past quarter, compared to just 5.3 percent that reported flagging demand. If the floodgates really are opening this time around, the resulting deluge will have been long overdue. The corporate capital stock in the U.S. is older than at any point since 1965, with the average age of non-residential fixed assets at 15.9 years as of 2012. Prior to 2005, the average age of non-residential fixed assets had been less than 15 years since 1967, with a trough at 13.8 years in 1986. Capacity utilization, a measure of how much output a country wrings from its installed capital base, troughed at 66.9 percent in 2009, but it’s now close to pre-recession levels at 79.1 percent. In other words, factories and production facilities are inching closer to running at full tilt, and Reinhard says some will undoubtedly need to add capacity in the near future. As businesses upgrade computers and software over the next two years, expect sales at IT companies of all kinds to get a boost. Manufacturing firms should also place more orders to companies that specialize in industrial equipment, particularly automation systems. And Reinhard says the spending won’t stop with machines. Service businesses that cater to corporate clients — such as hotel chains, airlines, advertising, and employment agencies — also stand to do very well as corporate spending picks up.  The increase in share buybacks, dividends, and even M&amp;A activity has been nice for shareholders holding the right stocks at the right time – but the ripples from an uptick in corporate capital expenditures should be much wider. FREE AppDownload
