Stephen Lam/ReutersShoppers and volunteer chaperones line up outside the Old Navy clothing shop during a "ChildSpree" back-to-school shopping event in San Jose, August 3, 2013. The event, hosted annually by the Salvation Army, provides 100 children in need of economic assistance, $100 each to shop for new clothes in preparation for the upcoming school year, according to a representative from the organization.(Reuters) - Teen apparel retailer Gap Inc reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit and sales and raised its full-year profit forecast, helped by strong sales of its low-priced Old Navy clothes. Comparable sales at Old Navy stores, which cater to a slightly older customer base, rose 4 percent in the second quarter ended Aug 2. But sales in its Gap and Banana Republic brands, which mainly cater to teens, were disappointing. Comparable store sales fell 5 percent at Gap and were flat at Banana Republic. Many large U.S. retailers have reported disappointing quarterly sales at their established stores, pointing to a cutback in spending on discretionary items. Gap rival Aeropostale Inc on Thursday reported a 13 percent fall in second-quarter comparable sales. American Apparel Inc said on Monday quarterly same-store sales declined 6 percent. Gap said on Thursday it was planning to introduce its Gap brand in India through 40 franchise-operated stores. The company raised its full-year profit forecast to $2.95-$3.00 per share for the year ending February 2015. It had previously forecast $2.90-$2.95 per share. Analysts on average expected the company to earn $2.95 per share for the year, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Net profit rose to $332 million, or 75 cents per share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 2, from $303 million, or 64 cents per share a year ago. Excluding items, the company earned 70 cents per share. Revenue rose 3 percent to $3.98 billion. Comparable sales were flat versus a 5 percent increase a year earlier. Analysts on average expected a profit of 69 cents per share on revenue of $3.96 billion. Gap's shares were up 1 percent at $43.18 in extended trading.   (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
