REUTERS/Bruno KellyA boy rides his bicycle along Third Street of the Alvorada neighbourhood which is decorated for the 2014 World Cup in Manaus, one of the tournament's host cities, May 17, 2014.There's very little on the economic calendar this week. However, we will get new monthly reports on existing home sales and new home sales on Thursday and Friday, respectively. Those measures have been among the various worrisome data points that led Goldman Sachs economists to slash their forecasts for housing and GDP growth on Friday. It's worth mentioning that mortgage rates are at seven-month lows, which should help the housing market. Speaking of interest rates, the 10-year Treasury note yield tumbled to 2.48% last week. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Last Monday, the S&amp;P 500 passed 1,900 for the first time ever, and it got as high as 1,902 before it ended the week at 1,877. Despite the milestone, the index is up just 1.6% this year. "One... item confusing investors is the strength of bond prices this year even as so many believe equities would be the better performers," said Tobias Levkovich, Citi Chief U.S. Equity Strategist. He noted that falling rates were "unexpected with various theories running around, ranging from foreign buyers trying to push down their own currencies to drive exports for domestic economic growth reasons to banks covering short positions given tighter risk controls amidst greater regulatory oversight. Indeed, some think that the regulatory environment has led to low inventories that exacerbate market moves in any direction. We have heard that strong stock price gains last year have forced pension funds to rebalance their portfolios from equities to bonds as equity holdings rose to uncomfortably higher levels due to last year’s index value appreciation. And, safe haven arguments have evolved as well to explain Treasury buying due to the Ukraine and other regional trouble spots." Levkovich pointed out that while the outperformance of bonds relative to stocks may seem odd, it's not unprecedented. "In any event, stock price relative gains versus Treasuries had been quite strong versus history (see Figure 6) and some backup is not all that shocking," he said. "Moreover, with no indications of inflation expectations shifting, one should not worry that much about a big imminent spike in interest rates." Citi Research For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
