REUTERS/Bobby YipHong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd Chairman Chow Chung-kong (2nd R) makes a statement on the establishment of the Shanghai-Hong Kong stock market link at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange April 10, 2014.The 550 billion yuan (HK$694 billion) Shanghai Hong Kong Stock Connect scheme to directly link the two cities’ share markets will start operations on November 17, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing (HKEx) said on Monday. Citing a joint statement by the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Hong Kong bourse operator announced that all relevant rules regarding trading and clearing had also been agreed and approved by regulators. “The necessary trading and clearing rules and other relevant rules, the daily and aggregate quota mechanisms and other regulatory and operational arrangements have now been finalised,” the joint statement said. It added that the stock exchanges and the clearing houses on both sides of the scheme had completed a series of market rehearsals with market participants and had agreed the principles and arrangements for cross-boundary regulatory and enforcement cooperation. The question of enforcement, given the differences in the regulatory regimes in the two cities, had been a key concern for investors. Those rules have now been published to the market, HKEx said. The so-called “through train” was expected to have begun operations in late October. It was delayed without explanation, though market speculation had focused on political fallout from the pro-democracy Occupy Central protests that have been running since late September. Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying and Financial Secretary John Tsang Chun-wah have led lobbying efforts in recent weeks to get the scheme started. Leung met with President Xi Jinping yesterday for the first time since the Occupy Central protests began. Xi said China was committed to the city’s democratic reform within the framework of the Basic Law – Hong Kong’s mini-constitution. “The rule of law is a key foundation for Hong Kong’s long-term stability and prosperity… the central government will state committed to the ‘one country, two systems’ principle and the Basic Law. We will firmly support Hong Kong to develop democracy in line with law and its endeavour to maintain its long term stability,” Xi said. Market speculation about the start date has intensified in recent weeks, sparking a scramble among Hong Kong banks to secure enough yuan currency to meet the anticipated demand for Shanghai-related trades. Offshore yuan deposit rates offered in Hong Kong has spiked since mid-September. At least eight banks have raised their yuan deposit rates or extended their promotional offers. HSBC and China Construction Bank were the two banks that raised their short-term yuan deposit rates last week, following similar moves by Dah Sing Bank, DBS, Nanyang Commercial Bank and Standard Chartered in early October. FREE AppDownload
