REUTERS/Mike SegarWhere is everyone?Last week was really something. The stock market hit new record highs, with the S&amp;P 500 finally closing above 2,000 for the first time ever. And we also learned GDP growth surged 4.2% in Q2 thanks to big upward revisions in business spending. The U.S. will be closed on Monday for Labor Day. However, we have a stacked line-up of top-shelf economic reports coming our way. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Jesse Livermore, the pseudononymous blogger behind the brilliant Philosophical Economics blog, has a lengthy examination of the cyclically adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio. This is the stock market valuation measure popularized by Nobel laureate Robert Shiller. "Why is the Shiller CAPE so high?" he asks. He explains that valuations in general have been higher than usual largely due to elevated earnings per share growth rates, which have been boosted by expanding corporate profit margins. Livermore believes current conditions will likely allow for very low-singled digit returns in the near-term. Here's his scenario: The increase in profit margins is not going to fully hold.  Some, but not all, of the profit margin gain will be given back.  On this assumption, it becomes harder to defend the market’s current valuation.  Importantly, profit margin contraction tends to occur alongside stronger sales growth.  In terms of the effect on EPS, stronger sales growth will help to make up for the profit margin that will be lost.  However, almost half of all sales growth ends up being inflation–the result of price increases rather than real output increases.  With inflation comes lower returns in real terms (the only terms that matter), and also, crucially, a tighter Fed.  If the Fed gets tighter, a TTM P/E of 19.3 will be much harder to sustain.  The market will therefore have to fight two headwinds at the same time–slow EPS growth due to profit margin contraction and a return drag driven by multiple contraction.  Returns on such a scenario will likely be weak. But they need not be disastrously weak.  In a prior piece, I argued that they might end up being 5% or 6% nominal, or 3% or 4% real.  Of course, that piece assumed a starting price of 1775. Nine months later, we are already at 2000.  The estimated returns have downshifted to 3% or 4% nominal, and 1% or 2% real.  Such returns offer almost no premium over the returns on offer in the much-safer fixed income world, and therefore, if any kind of profit margin contraction is coming, then the current market is probably pushing the boundaries of defensible valuation. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
