APLate last week, Marissa Mayer got the kind of letter a public company CEO never wants to get. It was an open letter from a major shareholder, telling her what to do…or else. The letter was from a type of shareholder known as an "activist investor." Activist investors buy lots of stock in public companies they believe are being run incorrectly. Usually, there is one specific thing the activist investor would like their public company targets to do, e.g. spin-out a division, merge with a rival, or commit to cost cuts. After they buy their stake, activists will often launch media-friendly campaigns to convince the people running the public company to change their ways. Behind these recommendations there is a sometimes explicit, sometimes implicit threat: Take my advice, or I will convince enough of your shareholders that you are a fool and together, we will vote out your board of directors and get you fired. The letter Mayer got last week was from an activist named Jeff Smith. His firm is Starboard Value. Starboard is the same firm that thinks Olive Garden is doing a bad job executing its unlimited breadsticks strategy. A couple years ago, Jeff Smith and Starboard put so much pressure on AOL CEO Tim Armstrong that he promised to make a division of his company, Patch, profitable by the end of 2013. When Patch wasn't, Armstrong spun it out. Smith wants Mayer to do four things: In his letter, Smith pointedly does not say that Yahoo's board should fire Marissa Mayer or that she should resign. The most threatening he gets is in his conclusion, when he writes, "We hope, and expect, that the management team and the Board will execute on the suggestions in this letter." But the truth is, behind those polite words there's a very clear message. If Yahoo doesn't do what Smith says, he is likely to propose an alternate slate of directors for the Yahoo board. If shareholders voted those directors onto the Yahoo board — and kicked some of its current directors off — Marissa Mayer would, in effect, have new bosses to report to, bosses that want her to do the things Smith is demanding. She would have a very short leash, and could easily be out of a job. The good news for Mayer is that this activist campaign doesn't have to go that far. In fact, she can diffuse the whole situation by taking some sort of bold action that pleases Smith and/or the rest of Yahoo's shareholders so much that there is no support for changing up the board. Under similar pressure a couple years ago, Microsoft announced that it would increase its dividend. Apple also increased its dividend after activist investor Carl Icahn lobbied it to do so.  Here are some things Mayer could do: Pretty much the only thing Mayer can't do is nothing. If there's no sign that Yahoo will be able to monetize its stakes in Alibaba or Yahoo! Japan, and Yahoo's core revenues remain stagnant, shareholders will flock to Smith. Nicholas Carlson is the author of Marissa Mayer and the Fight to Save Yahoo!, on sale January 6. FREE AppDownload
