With the exception of last year’s steady rise, March has been maddening for investors. In three of the past four years the S&amp;P 500 raced higher in March only to reverse all of those gains in a pullback of about 10% that began in late March or April. It later took stocks at least five months to climb back to the peaks of March. As the NCAA tournament gets down to its own sweet sixteen while the rest of March plays out, it is a good time to reflect on the competing drivers of the markets that may make for an exciting showdown in the weeks and months to come.   LPL Financial As we narrow down stocks’ “sweet sixteen” potential drivers again this year, the four “regions” of market-moving factors vying for investor attention are: economy, policy, fundamentals, and sentiment. Economy Policy Fundamentals Sentiment There are quite a few listed here, but these certainly are not all the factors that are influencing the markets. The key message for investors in considering these factors is: do not be too confident in any particular outcome. It is a time to nibble at opportunities as they emerge; it is not a time to jump in with both feet, or for indiscriminate selling. Investing is not a game, but it is important also to remember that forecasting is not an exact science, and many factors can affect outcomes that are hard to predict. For example: The markets rarely offer perfect clarity on their direction because they are driven by these factors as well as many others. Even this week’s NCAA March Madness can be seen as a reminder of how it can be notoriously hard to predict winners; historically, a team’s ranking has meant nothing after getting down to the elite eight. There will likely be some upsets that result in volatility and pullbacks as these factors face off against each other. In the end, we expect positive fundamentals and economic growth to win out and a potentially rewarding year for investors. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
