ShutterstockLike everything else we wear, belts are a reflection of our personality and fashion sense. This small accessory gives your body a balanced look while creating symmetry.  And let’s not forget their original purpose – belts hold up our pants. They typically fall into two categories: Formal and Casual. Formal, or dress belts, should be worn with suits, dress slacks, and most business-casual pants. Simple rule: if you are wearing dress shoes, wear a dress belt. Your dress belt should match your dress shoes, both in leather finish (sheen) as well as leather texture. Formal belts tend to be thinner (between 1 and 1 ½ inches wide), and typically have a glossy finish that shines. Dress belts are always leather with sleek and subtle belt buckles. Some are also reversible with black on one side and brown on the other. Casual belts are worn with casual pants like jeans, chinos, khakis, and shorts. They are typically wider than formal belts, and can range in width up to the width of the pants’ belt loops. There are two main casual belt options: leather and fabric/synthetic. The casual belt buckle comes in every size, shape, and material you can imagine.  Now that we have the basic breakdown of the two different belt styles, these are the 3 belt types that every guy needs in his style arsenal. shop.nordstrom.com and shop.nordstrom.com(Left: Salvatore Ferragamo Reversible Belt, $320; Right: Salvatore Ferragamo 'Twirl' Belt, $460) The color of the dress belt is going to be determined by the color of your favorite dress shoes.  If you are a “black shoe because it matches everything” kind of guy, go with a black dress belt to compliment and match your favorite black shoes.  If you are a brown dress shoe fan, however, the belt selection process is a bit more complicated. Black is black, but there are about 50 shades of brown. When selecting your brown dress belt, bring your shoes into the store with you to help with color matching, since trying to match browns from memory is impossible. Remember, some black dress belts are reversible and have brown on the flip side, so make sure to check out the backs. www.jcrew.com and www1.macys.com(Left: J.Crew Wallace &amp; Barnes Roller Belt, $98; Right: Lauren by Ralph Lauren Leather Casual Belt, $30) This belt is going to be your dress belt's casual counterpart.  The casual leather belt will be thicker, with less shine than your dress belt. It’s the perfect option to wear with your favorite jeans, shorts, or chinos. Pair these with a great pair of casual brown leather loafers, boat shoes, chukkas, or boots. www.gap.com and www.neimanmarcus.com and www.jcrew.com(Clockwise from left: Gap Textiled D-Ring Belt, $20; Salvatore Ferragamo  Suede Double Gancini Belt, $340; J.Crew Mountaineer Belt, $30)  One can't exist on leather belts alone. Fabric belts pair well with tennis shoes, fashion sneakers, sandals, or flip flops. From braided cotton to suede to patterned, these belts don't need to "match" — they need to coordinate with your outfit. Find one you love, and then build out your arsenal from there. For more detailed videos and articles about belts, head over to the I Am Alpha M. website. FREE AppDownload
