REUTERS/Eduard KorniyenkoPeople hold a rally in the Russian southern city of Stavropol, in support of the people of Crimea, March 7, 2014.Not long ago, most of the news out of Russia was about triple axels, bobsleds and curling rocks. But just two weeks after the Sochi Winter Olympics, the vernacular has changed to words such as deployment, standoff and sanctions. In the past week, thousands of Russia-affiliated troops have occupied government buildings, airports and military installations in the southern Ukrainian region of Crimea. Russian President Vladimir Putin has said the deployments are only to protect ethnic Russians from extremist Ukrainian groups who took control after street protests turned deadly in February. Russian lawmakers have granted Putin the authority to use force if need be, but Russia has established de facto control of the Crimea region without having to deploy troops in Ukraine’s other Eastern regions. Now, the global community is holding its collective breath, waiting for Russia’s next move. Investors were not in a wait-and-see mood. Spooked by the news, they went on a selling spree, sending the benchmark MICEX stock index down almost 11 percent in one day and the ruble down 2 percent to a record low of 36.50 against the US dollar. In a bid to stabilize the currency, the central bank sold $11.3 billion of reserves, and unexpectedly raised its main interest rate 150 basis points to 7 percent last Monday in an attempt to quell capital flight. The loss of faith arguably could not have come at a worse time for Russia’s markets. The country’s economy is already struggling with stagnant growth, high inflation and a weakening currency. Even before Russian troops took their posts in Crimea, the ruble had depreciated 10 percent against the dollar since late December and inflation had come in at 6.2 percent in February. Economic growth slowed to 1.3 percent last year from 3.4 percent in 2012, and the current account surplus fell from $72 billion in 2012 to $33 billion in 2013. Any boost the economy got from construction spending for the Olympics was not enough to arrest the troublesome trendline, and the Crimean crisis only seems likely to make matters worse. The extent of the damage will depend largely on the outcome of diplomacy. European Union and U.S. officials have held talks all week to discuss possible sanctions against Russia. The U.S., which calls Russia’s justifications for occupying Crimea a ruse for a larger plan to expand its military occupation, on Thursday authorized the Treasury Department to freeze U.S. assets of individuals or entities responsible for the Russian military takeover. The Obama administration also banned visas for Russian officials and other people considered to have undermined the territorial integrity of Ukraine. The European Union leaders made a more forgiving announcement, only threatening to freeze assets and impose a travel ban if Russia does not begin negotiations on a pullout from Crimea soon. Europe is more wary about acting with a heavy hand because of its energy dependence on Russia; Germany, for example, relies on the country as its top supplier of natural gas. Given the political uncertainty, there are three main directions the crisis could take, according to Alexey Pogorelov and Sergei Voloboev, Credit Suisse’s economists for Russia and the CIS. Under the most likely scenario, the analysts said in a report entitled “Russia: Cautious But Tactical Opportunities Arise,” tensions will continue without significant military escalation. With or without Europe, the U.S. is expected to continue to implement light sanctions, including potentially restricting visa access and asset movements by some Russian officials. Russia will likely stay in Crimea, without extending its reach into other areas of Eastern Ukraine, before the parties eventually negotiate a solution. While the ruble’s roller-coaster ride would likely end under this scenario, the currency would likely stay weak. Capital outflows would not be reversed in any meaningful way, as Russian households would remain wary of holding rubles and would remain keen to trade them in for dollars instead. Another possible scenario is that successful international mediation brings about a quick and positive resolution to the conflict. They believe that would quell volatility in the markets and fuel a 2 to 3 percent rally in the ruble, allowing the central bank to return interest rates closer to their 5.5 percent pre-crisis level. Credit Suisse estimates the probability of this scenario at less than 30 percent at this stage. The worst-case scenario is a military escalation, which would likely cause another run on the currency, and a further significant depreciation of the ruble. Such an outcome looks less probable after Putin on Tuesday ruled out war with Ukraine and said Russia had no intention of seizing the territory. Still, he said Russia retained the right to use force as a last resort. “After the press conference, it’s less than 20 percent likely but the chance is still on the table,” Pogorelov said. A weak ruble is not all bad for Russia. It makes domestic manufactured goods relatively cheap, which may increase exports and widen the current account surplus. It would bolster the federal budget since oil and gas exports, which account for half of the government’s overall revenues, are paid for in foreign currency. Credit Suisse has concluded that a previously projected budget deficit of 0.5 percent for this year is now likely to disappear. Still, there is no escaping the negative news. Even if the standoff is resolved quickly, there will be consequences. Namely, the ruble’s slide is going to pinch Russian consumers, who rely on imported goods that have already become more expensive, Pogorelov said. That will in turn hurt overall consumer demand and the economy. Growth might also take a hit from a slowdown in Ukraine, which remains an important Russian trading partner. Accordingly, Credit Suisse has already lowered its 2014 GDP growth forecast for the country to 1.3 percent from 2.3 percent and says that while a recession is not the most likely scenario, it is a possibility. “International investors understand this perfectly,” Pogorelov says, “That’s why they remain bearish on Russian assets.” FREE AppDownload
