Yellen’s most pressing challenge is to hammer home the message that the economy is still recovering, rather than recovered. And there’s ample evidence that it is indeed recovering. Testifying before the House Financial Services Committee Tuesday, Yellen noted that the U.S. economy has added 3.25 million jobs since August 2012. Over the same period, the unemployment rate has fallen by 1.5 percentage points to 6.6 percent. But there is also evidence that it is not yet in rude health: Of the 10.2 million Americans who want to work and cannot find a job, 36 percent of them have been unemployed for six months or longer, something Yellen said was a sign that there is still “a great deal of slack” in the labor market. Here’s where things get complicated. At 6.6 percent, the unemployment rate is just a whisper away from the 6.5 percent rate Fed officials have previously indicated as the threshold at which policymakers would start thinking about raising the benchmark fed funds rate. They’ve tried to communicate that “starting to think” about raising rates is not a promise to do so <U+2015> Bernanke said in both November and December that the bank would likely keep the fed funds rate close to zero “well after” the unemployment rate hits 6.5 percent <U+2015> but Wall Street doesn’t really do nuance, and rates recently started rising in anticipation of that hike, whenever it actually happens. Ten-year Treasury yields rose 23 basis points in December to end the year at 3.04 percent. Credit Suisse’s fixed-income and economic strategists made note of that tension <U+2015> policymakers trying to convince the markets that the fed funds rate would stay parked at 0.25 percent, but the markets not really buying it <U+2015> in an early January report called “It Pays to Fight the Fed.” While several pieces of bad economic news in January caused yields to retreat from their December levels, Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists said in a report leading up to Yellen’s testimony that “it is safe to forecast that the Fed’s commitment to easy policy will be tested again, perhaps multiple times, before this year is through.” The market’s anticipatory movement was due in large part to the fact that even if the Fed held the line on rates in December, it did finally dial back on the great monetary experiment of 2008-2013, having judged the economy healthy enough to start paring back its $85 billion monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. It’s not much of a logical leap to assume that a rate hike is coming down the pike, no matter what the central bank says. Indeed, a recent paper by an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco noted that even though the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee did not change its interest rate projections between September and December, the prospect of tapering changed the market’s expectation of the first rate hike’s timing from September 2015 to March 2015 during that time. Unfortunately, Yellen’s task of convincing market participants that the Fed will keep the fed funds rate where it is has recently gotten easier. The Institute of Supply Management’s January survey of manufacturing activity fell to its lowest level since last May, and the drop in the number of companies reporting new orders was the steepest since 1980. Meanwhile, American payroll numbers were weaker than expected in both December and January. While some, including Yellen, have attributed some of the weak job growth to the frigid weather in the Northeast and Midwest, Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists are skeptical. After all, workers have to miss an entire pay period to go uncounted in the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ monthly survey. “It is increasingly hard to argue that the jobs slowdown is an isolated event,” the economists said in a note released ahead of Yellen’s testimony. “It validates the weak tone seen in the other monthly economic reports.” Credit Suisse’s fixed-income strategists also think that the boom in global industrial production growth has reached a top. Industrial production momentum (the year-over-year change in rolling three-month numbers) in the developed world hit its peak in January near 7 percent, compared to an average of 1.5 percent since 1980. And then there’s China. While Credit Suisse believes that growth in the world’s second-largest economy has been weakening for the last four years – official numbers notwithstanding <U+2015> and anemic official industrial production and GDP readings last month finally rattled investors, resulting in the past few weeks’ emerging-market selloff and a broader risk-off sentiment. “Credit risk appetite has tumbled from euphoric levels,” Credit Suisse’s global fixed-income team wrote in a recent note entitled “What’s Past the Peak.” “Equity risk appetite, pulled down by underperforming emerging markets, began the year negative and has declined. Global risk appetite has reached negative territory for the first time since late 2012.” So what’s a Fed chair to do? So far, Yellen has tried to feed markets both medicine and candy. She took pains on Tuesday to emphasize that she planned to continue Bernanke’s accommodative practices by keeping the fed funds rate near zero well into the future. But she also said the bank would continue to taper asset purchases as long as the labor market keeps improving and inflation moves toward the Fed’s target rate of 2 percent. (The latest inflation reading was 1.5 percent.) Still, even the most carefully crafted messaging cannot hide the fact that central bank support – both in the U.S. and elsewhere <U+2015> isn’t as forthcoming as it used to be. The European Central Bank disappointed some market participants by failing to cut interest rates last week. And while the Bank of Japan is expected to introduce new easing measures to offset an April increase in the consumption tax, it has yet to actually do so. Chinese officials, too, appear more reluctant to offer new stimulus than in the past. Credit Suisse’s fixed-income strategists note that before mid-2011, GDP growth rates of 9 to 10 percent were enough to prompt a policy response, but the trigger now seems closer to 7 percent. “We think growth will need to slow for at least a few months before meaningful easing occurs,” they said. The flood of central bank liquidity has been beneficial to risky asset classes over the last several years. High-yield corporate debt yields, for example, are well below their historical averages. The lowest rated “junk” bonds paid just 8.37 percent in January compared to an average of 17.5 percent since 1988, according to Credit Suisse data. The big question is what’s going to happen to investor risk appetites now that the next move in rates is likely higher, rather than lower, in both the U.S. and the U.K. Given that continued tapering still seems to be the plan, and Credit Suisse does not believe the developed world will see a sharp slowdown in economic growth this year – despite the recent wobble in the U.S. – Yellen’s task of reassuring markets that benchmark rates will remain where they are for some time yet is only going to get more difficult. One way she might do so, say Credit Suisse analysts, is to keep the focus on current low levels of inflation, rather than employment. “Once this period of slowing (global IP) momentum ends, the market will likely turn to focus on the risks of Fed tightening, another potential headwind for risky assets,” the bank’s fixed-income strategists said. “The easy days of above-trend and accelerating growth and a steady stream of dovish policy surprises really does appear to be over.” At least Yellen won’t be alone in trying to maintain her balance – investors may be walking a tightrope of their own. FREE AppDownload
