REUTERS/Ricardo MoraesA man rides his motorcycle along a street decorated in celebration of the upcoming World Cup in Rio de Janeiro It's a fairly quiet week in the U.S..  On Friday, we saw the U.S. economy added 217,000 nonfarm payrolls in May, while the unemployment rate held steady at 6.3%. All eyes will now turn to the retail sales report for confirmation of an economic snapback. We also have three Fed speeches on Monday. St. Louis Federal Reserve president James Bullard will speak on the economy and monetary policy in Florida. Boston Federal president, Eric Rosengreen, is slated to speak on monetary policy in Guatemala. Finally, Fed Gov. Daniel Tarullo will speak on corporate governance in Washington. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary U.S. stocks ended higher with the Dow and S&amp;P 500 hitting new record highs on Friday. "In line with the recent trend, this week’s push higher lacked a specific catalyst. However, while the macro narrative remained little changed, there were several positive dynamics at work,” according to the folks at FactSet. One of those would be the European Central Bank's historic rate cut, which made it the first major central bank to push rates into negative territory. The ECB also announced a string of easing measures.  "While there were no meaningful surprises out of this week's sell-side conferences, there seemed to be more focus on the pickup in earnings growth coming out of Q1. Strategists also continued to highlight improved earnings revision trends,” according to FactSet. Meanwhile, Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets writes that falling rates are not signaling a weaker economy. “The recent divergence between Treasury yields and stock prices has some investors nervous based on our client conversations,” writes Belski. “The predominant line of thinking is that lower rates portend softer economic growth. However, we believe these investors may be over-emphasizing the significance of the recent decoupling.” "Based on our work, periods of interest rate and stock price decoupling are fairly common and most of the time stocks “get it right.” In addition, the recent drop in rates appears to be more technical in nature from our lens given that trends in important economic indicators have improved significantly since the start of the year." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
