U.S. Air ForceAn F-35 Lightning II completes a series of night flights, testing the ability to fly the jet safely in instrument meteorological conditions in which the pilot has no external visibility references.Lockheed Martin expects the cost of the F-35 fighter jet to drop to its target level by 2019 and still sees the first version of the aircraft combat-ready by mid-2015, despite an engine fire that still needs a fix, the firm said on Thursday. The F-35 is the most expensive weapons system ever built. A decision by South Korea on Wednesday to order 40 F-35s for about $7 billion further lowers the program's cost, and Lockheed sees the per-unit cost down to $80 million to $85 million by 2019 from the current rate of about $115 million, Jeff Babione, Lockheed's deputy general manager for the F-35 program, told reporters in Oslo. Lockheed, engine maker Pratt &amp; Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp, and other suppliers are investing heavily to drive down the program's projected $400 billion cost, making it more affordable for cash-strapped governments looking to buy over 3,100 aircraft over the next decades. Flickr/US Air ForceU.S. Air Force Tech. Sgt. Brian West watches an Air Force F-35 Lightning II joist strike fighter aircraft approach for the first time July 14, 2011, at Eglin Air Force Base, Fla."The cost reduction will come with the increase in orders," Babione told Reuters on the sidelines of a news conference. "We anticipate that there's a market out there for 4,000 airplanes ... and the biggest risk to cost is if we don't get the orders we showed. That will significantly erode our ability to take advantage of economic order quantities and reduce cost." The F-35 program was set back earlier this year when the Pentagon grounded its entire fleet after a June 23 fire on an Air Force F-35A jet, an all-new aircraft with advanced stealth capabilities, improved maneuverability, and advanced sensors. Lockheed is still investigating the issue and expects to determine the root cause this month or early October, and it sees a fix implemented on aircraft already in service in early 2015, said Chris Flynn, a Pratt &amp; Whitney vice-president for the F-35 engine program. "We understand what fundamentally happened ... and we have tremendous confidences in the timeline," Flynn said. "We think it's a fairly straightforward fix." Though no longer grounded, the fleet of over 100 F-35s already delivered flies under restrictions, pending the engine fix. Lockheed added it was also confident that the U.S. Marine Corps would declare the first version of the jet combat-ready by mid-2015 and said that beside the engine issue, the integration of the communication systems and the subtle changes to flight controls were its main issues. (Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
