REUTERS/Eddie KeoghSwans swim over a soccer pitch after the Thames River flooded Windsor, southern England February 12, 2014.  REUTERSSouthern and western Britain have been drenched by the wettest winter in 250 years, and nature isn't letting up quite yet. The River Thames burst its banks after reaching its highest level in years, flooding riverside towns west of London. Winds of more than 1o0 mph have been hitting the the U.K.'s west coast. This snippet from Euro News gives an idea of the country's flood crisis:  The biggest Atlantic storm of the year is due on Friday, with the already half-submerged county of Somerset fearing more misery. The west is now cut off by rail from the rest of the country at Bridgwater. Battered coastal towns from Cornwall up to Wales are bracing themselves for more damage. Reuters notes that residents and British troops had piled up sandbags in a bid to protect properties, but the floods "overwhelmed their defences Monday." Around 5,000 houses have been damaged since December. At least 130,000 people were been left without power late on Wednesday.  A groundwater scientist at the British Geological Survey told Sky News that levels are likely to keep rising for another two months as water soaks through the soil. The Network Rail said that consequent issues with train lines and infrastructure could take "some months" to resolve.  With a liquid floor in much of lower Britain, residents are quickly adapting to the suddenly surreal landscape.   REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA resident pulls an inflatable boat with possessions through a flooded estate at Egham after the River Thames burst its banks in southeast England February 13, 2014. REUTERS/Kieran Doherty A couple paddles in a gondola while posing for media, through the flooded central square in the village of Datchet in Berkshire, southern England February 12, 2014. REUTERS/Kieran DohertyA man ferries a local resident by boat through the flooded central square in the village of Datchet in Berkshire, southern England February 12, 2014.  #UKstorms: Living with contaminated flood water http://t.co/I6j2q1Z3r8 pic.twitter.com/RBNscXOQmg 
