REUTERS/Heinz-Peter Bader Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi. The cut of about 300,000 barrels a day in expected demand comes after crude oil prices have collapsed by 40% since June. "The downward revision reflects the upward adjustment of non-OPEC supply as well as the downward revision in global demand," OPEC said in its monthly market report. The combination of slowing growth, particularly in energy-intensive countries like China, and the shale oil boom in the US has put significant pressure on oil prices over recent months. Brent crude has fallen to under $66 a barrel from a peak of $115 in June, while US benchmark WTI crude is down to $62.7 a barrel from over $107. EIABrent vs WTI crude prices in 2014. Last month OPEC decided against cutting production despite the price falls. In the statement following its decision the cartel said "although world oil demand is forecast to increase during the year 2015, this will, yet again, be offset by the projected increase of 1.36 mb/d in non-OPEC supply." What did it mean by that? Well in recent years non-OPEC supply has been increasing, meaning that OPEC's hold over global oil markets has been weakened. This means the cartel, which controls about 40% of global oil production, is having to compete much more actively on price with non-OPEC producers to maintain market share. Here's OPEC's killer chart: OPECGlobal oil demand vs non-OPEC supply. As a demonstration of this trend, output from within OPEC actually fell by 390,000 barrels a day in November because of supply disruption in Libya, after rebels seized the country's critical Sharara oil field. However, those falls were more than compensated for by increases in non-OPEC supply which has risen by 1.72 million barrels a day in 2014, about 580,000 a day more than OPEC's initial estimates, according to Bloomberg. This has left some analysts to speculate that for now OPEC is simply unable to halt further oil price slides. Bank of America's Francisco Blanch said the organization was "effectively dissolved" after failing to cut production at its latest meeting over the protests of many of its members.   FREE AppDownload
