Neal Soss, Credit Suisse’s Vice Chairman of Global Fixed Income and Economics Research, says that it’s not unusual to have periods of sluggish growth after a major financial crisis, as governments, businesses, financial institutions, and consumers retrench. The danger arises if that retrenchment phase drags on for too long. At that point, mediocre growth can start to feel more permanent, and businesses will feel a declining incentive to invest in the possibility of expansion. What’s more, the skills of the long-term unemployed can atrophy to the point that they verge on being permanently unemployable. “The downside to an episode of this sort – if that sluggish growth continues – isn’t just the slower growth itself. It’s that the potential of the economy will deteriorate,” he says. With no new fiscal or monetary stimulus on the horizon, there is concern among economists that world leaders are running that very risk. “Most of the world is allergic to explicit fiscal stimulus and the public sector balance sheet leverage it implies,” Credit Suisse’s fixed income analysts wrote in their most recent quarterly global economics survey, “Speeding Up to Average.” European officials have imposed stringent austerity requirements on Greece, Spain, Portugal, and Ireland in exchange for their various bailouts. A combination of tax increases and spending cuts over the last four years have reduced the U.S. budget deficit from 10 percent of GDP in 2009 ($1.4 trillion) to a projected 3 percent ($514 billion) this year. Japan’s consumption tax rose from 5 percent to 8 percent without any accompanying monetary stimulus, a reflection of how eager Japanese policymakers are to shrink both the deficit and the public debt, which is twice the size of the economy. Meanwhile, Chinese authorities are trying to rein in local government spending by reducing credit availability, while Brazil pledged to cut its budget by $18.5 billion in February to meet a budget surplus target of 1.9 percent. Additional monetary stimulus seems equally unlikely. Most central bankers are keeping monetary policy accommodative, but the Federal Reserve is steadily winding down quantitative easing, and both the Bank of Japan and European Central Bank have disappointed those who were confident they would ease further in the first quarter. Several countries are also implementing structural reforms that will cause further short-term pain in the hopes of increased economic potential five or more years down the line. China’s efforts to rebalance its economy toward domestic consumption, for example, will ultimately create a more sustainable growth model that doesn’t depend on ill-advised local government borrowing financed by shadow banking. The recent crackdown on official corruption is also a move in the right direction. But both moves have contributed to China’s declining GDP growth, which is even below the government’s own 7.5 percent forecast. The Reserve Bank of India, meanwhile, aims to bring inflation to 4 percent within two years, down from an average of 8.4 percent since 2005. The “extremely conservative” policies required to achieve that will surely restrict growth, Credit Suisse economists say. If policymakers seem unlikely to kick-start the global economy, an increase in business spending could do the trick. The conditions are certainly ripe for it. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2013, U.S. businesses made record post-tax profits of $1.9 trillion, up 35 percent from the previous peak of $1.41 trillion in 2006. Net corporate cash flow reached its highest-ever level in the third quarter of 2013 at $2.28 trillion. And yet, at $458.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, net private domestic business investment in the U.S. was still below 2007 levels. “Some of that, I suspect, is simply the passage of time, as confidence heals after the crisis we’ve had,” Soss says. “But we’re apparently still lacking that something that will give business leadership the kind of confidence in the medium- and long-term future that gets cash out of their hands and turned into actual business activity.” Maybe that something is an unexpected positive surprise, or maybe it’s a few more months of encouraging economic data – enough to prove this recovery is the real deal, even if it’s slower and weaker than we’d have hoped. FREE AppDownload
