NASAPhotograph of the region from Richmond, Virginia to New York City, taken from the International Space Station on April 6, 2011 by the Expedition 27 Crew.At night, satellite images show a string of near-constant light along the cities of the U.S. East Coast. Urban growth and sprawl have created a map where Washington blends into Baltimore, and on through Philadelphia, Trenton, New York, Hartford, Providence, and Boston. The concept of mega-regions dates back to 1957, when the economic geographer Jean Gottmancoined the term “megalopolis” to describe the emerging economic hub that stretched from Boston to D.C. The term came to be applied to a number of regions, including the vast Midwestern megalopolis that extends east from Chicago through Detroit and Cleveland and south to Pittsburgh, which Gottman dubbed “Chi-Pitts,” and many more across the United States and around the world. More than just a collection of cities or one giant city, a mega-region is greater than the sum of its parts. In earlier research with Timothy Gulden and Charlotta Mellander, we used the satellite images of the globe at night to identify the world’s 40 “mega-regions.” We defined these as a contiguous lighted area with more than one major city or metropolitan region that produced more than $100 billion in economic output. We found a dozen of these mega-regions in North America – mainly in the United States but spilling over into Canada and Mexico as well. I have written about these mega-regions on Cities before, and I recently completed an updated study of their populations and economies with my colleagues at the Martin Prosperity Institute. I have adapted the results of this newest report for Cities readers below, using more current data to identify the populations and economic size of America’s economic powerhouse regions and see how they would compare to the nations of the world. Zara Matheson The first map, above, shows the populations of North America’s dozen mega-regions. These mega-regions account for 243 metropolitan areas in the U.S. and Canada, including more than 60 percent of all U.S. metros. These dozen regions have a combined population of more than 230 million people, including 215 million from the United States, or 70 percent of the U.S. population. (So-Cal, Cascadia, and Tor-Buff-Chester include parts of Mexico and Canada). Bos-Wash is the largest, home to 56.5 million people. Denver-Boulder is the smallest, with just shy of 5 million. Still, when compared to the world’s largest economies, Denver-Boulder’s economic output would rank among the 50 largest. The second map, below, identifies the economic size of these dozen mega-regions and how they compare to nations around the world. The Bos-Wash corridor produces more than Germany, Chi-Pitts more than Brazil, and So-Cal more than all of Mexico. Together, these dozen mega-regions produce more than $13 trillion dollars in economic output, equivalent to three-quarters of America’s total GDP. Zara Matheson A more detailed, region-by-region typology of the country’s mega-regions is below, arranged from largest to smallest by population. Population data are from the U.S. Census Bureau American Community Survey and from Statistics Canada. The data on economic output for both U.S. metros and nations are from the most recent Metro Economies Report from the U.S. Conference of Mayors (the metro data is predictive for 2014, while the national GDP data covers the most recent year available, 2012); Canadian data are from the Montreal Chamber of Commerce. Karen King and Zara Matheson of the Martin Prosperity Institute compiled the data and Matheson created the maps. FREE AppDownload
