Getty Images/ Rob CarrFrancis Tiafoe.Hedge fund titan Bill Ackman, the CEO of $14 billion Pershing Square Capital, is sponsoring 16-year-old tennis phenom Francis Tiafoe. Tiafoe, a top-ranked junior, won his first Grand Slam main-draw match in doubles this week at the U.S. Open.  ESPN tennis analyst Brad Gilbert told CNBC that Tiafoe was a player to watch. He said there's "a huge, huge hedge fund guy" backing Tiafoe. Gilbert didn't name Ackman explicitly, but we were able to figure it out. We got in touch with Ackman, and he told us that Tiafoe has a great story.  "[Tiafoe] has a very compelling life story and he's super-talented. He's a good kid," Ackman told Business Insider by phone. "I'm in a position to be able to help people, and he's the kind of guy you want to back." Tiafoe's story is unique compared to other players. His father, an immigrant from Sierra Leone, was the janitor at the Junior Tennis Champions Center in College Park, Maryland. The JTCC is a nonprofit tennis academy built by former Goldman Sachs partner, Kenneth Brody. It's known for being one of the top facilities for creating players. Tiafoe and his twin brother, Franklin, would come to work with their dad. Tiafoe pretty much grew up on the tennis courts. The first time he picked up a racket he was only 3 years old.  "He fell in love with the game at a very young age, probably four or five," JTCC's CEO Ray Benton said. "Like most great athletes, he would watch the older kids play and then try to copy what they do. He's just been devoted to the game literally since he was born. He has a real passion for the game." At 15, he became the youngest ever to win the prestigious 18-and-under Orange Bowl. Tennis superstars Andy Roddick and Roger Federer also won the Orange Bowl as teens, but they were older than Tiafoe.  Photo courtesy of Tom NewtonBill Ackman.Tiafoe met Ackman in the summer of 2013. Some of the JTCC's other top juniors were invited to the Hamptons for Kenneth Brody's 70th birthday. Investment banker-tennis player Jeffrey Appel, affectionately known as the "Mayor of New York Tennis," brought the junior players to Ackman's house where they played doubles.  Ackman partnered with Tiafoe and took a liking to him. This summer, Ackman traveled to College Park to play with Tiafoe at the JTCC.  "I'm most appreciative for Bill for supporting Francis and JTCC. We're dependent on the generosity of supporters like Bill to give aid to our youngsters who have been vetted to prove that they have a real financial need," Benton said, adding that he's also thankful for Appel for supporting the organization and making the introduction to Ackman. Ackman is heavily involved in the tennis community on Wall Street. Ackman played in high school at Horace Greeley in the 1980s, but he did not play in college. He returned to the tennis world thanks to the encouragement of Appel. Ackman frequently plays in charity tournaments, and he donates significant amounts of money to various causes.  It's expensive to be a tennis player. It's a sport where you can lose money for a long time before you have a chance of making it. It's a sport where you really do need a backer. It's unclear how much Ackman's sponsorship is, but we're told by another source that it's "a meaningful amount."   FREE AppDownload
