Burger King on FacebookBurger King is sticking to what it does best. Burger King is thriving.  While fast-food competitor McDonald's grapples with declining sales, Burger King has been attracting more customers.  Morgan Stanley just upgraded Burger King's shares to "overweight," citing positive trends in the business. The company's stock has risen 56% in the past year.  Here are a few reasons Burger King is doing so well.  Burger King recently acquired the Canadian coffee chain Tim Hortons. Morgan Stanley analysts believe that Tim Hortons will have more than 600 international locations in the next three years. The chain is also expected to add locations in the US.  Yahoo! FinanceBurger King's shares have soared in the past year. "These days ... Burger King is behaving more like a startup than a typical burger chain," writes Devin Leonard at Bloomberg Businessweek. The company's 33-year-old CEO Daniel Schwartz has been credited with turning the company into a "cash machine."  Schwartz has swiftly changed Burger King's menu to be less complicated. He also made franchising easier for overseas restaurants, leading to a rapid international expansion.  Schwartz helped reduce Burger King's corporate headcount to 2,425 from 38,884 by refranchising restaurants, meaning those workers now report to franchise owners.  He also axed many executive perks, including lavish offices and a $1 million annual party at a chateau in Italy, Leonard writes. These cost-cutting measures have helped profits soar.  Courtesy of Burger King WorldwideCEO Daniel Schwartz has taken key cost-cutting measures. Burger King announced Monday that it was going to sell 10 chicken nuggets for $1.49.  The company also brought back Chicken Fries earlier this year after a viral social media campaign.  Rather than bogging down the menu with risky new items, Burger King is playing up what it does best — classic fast food.  This benefits everyone. Customers are getting what they want, and workers and restaurant owners aren't bogged down by an overwhelming menu.  FREE AppDownload
