Wikimedia CommonsSAE at Dartmouth.Excerpted from "Confessions of An Ivy League Frat Boy" by Andrew Lohse. Copyright © 2014 by Andrew Lohse and reprinted by permission of Thomas Dunne Books.  Andrew Lohse pledged Sigma Alpha Epsilon at Dartmouth College and later went public with allegations of hazing within the fraternity. The following passage is his account of a night early on during his time as a pledge. Later on in the novel, Lohse writes of date rape, drugs, and being forced to swim through a swimming pool filled with human waste. “There are three things you have to remember,” he said. I nodded, unsure if I was supposed to speak. The other brothers stared me down. I didn’t want to look up and recognize them, because I didn’t want to remember later who was there or that this strange thing was happening. No one spoke except Goodrich. “Number one. Always trust the brotherhood.”  “Always trust the brotherhood,” I repeated. “Good. Take a shot.” I reached for the first glass. My hand shook. Cheap gin. It was warm. My throat burned—my lips puckered and I almost dropped the shot glass trying to set it back down on the table. Innumerable eyes trained on me, wreaking a havoc of anxiety on me from my peripheral vision. Confessions Of An Ivy League Frat Boy“Number two. Always trust your pledge brothers.” I repeated Goodrich’s injunction and drank the second shot, this time gagging more than I did on the first. I couldn’t tell if it was salt water, spit, urine, or some mix of all three. By this time I was already drunk and tired and my stomach was beginning to send urgent messages to my brain. Sadly, these messages went missing between depressed nerve endings somewhere in my spinal cord, and the warning diffused, beaten into submission by my desire not to disappoint the bros. Onward, my willpower demanded. Always trust the brotherhood. You heard the dude. “Number three. What happens in the house stays in the house.” “What happens in the house stays in the house,” I muttered, reaching for the third shot. Before I could touch it, Goodrich grabbed my wrist and I accidentally stared into his eyes, then quickly averted my glance. He released his grip. For some reason I looked down, expecting to see a mark, but there was no mark. Then it was time for the twist. “Now, whales--t, what were the three things I just told you to remember?” The three things that were, f---, like, impossible to recall in order, even though I’d learned them only seconds before. Goodrich stared me down over the flickering candle. He had eyes like a mad Puritan minister. The brothers on the risers leaned toward me in unison, staring. They were expecting something, I realized. I had to say something. How was I supposed to remember? Who can even remember these things? “Always trust—the house—” I stammered. “No!” Just like everyone else before me, I’d f---- it up. The instructions were so easy, but I’d f---ed them up. I felt devastated. Davis opened the door, frowning, and led me back through the dim hallway to the Libes, forced a copy of The Phoenix back into my hands. “Sit back down on the floor and study, whales---,” he said. “You clearly have progress to make.”  FREE AppDownload
