sunday driver/FlickrL'Atelier de Joël Robuchon in Hong Kong.New York City foodies are having a fantastic week.  Not only did Michelin reveal its 2015 restaurant ratings for the Big Apple on Tuesday, but it was announced Wednesday that world-renowned chef Joël Robuchon is set to reopen his famous L’Atelier de Joël Robuchon in New York’s Battery Park City. Robuchon, whose restaurant empire encompasses Hong Kong, Las Vegas, London, Monaco, Paris, and Tokyo, has more Michelin stars than any other chef in the world — an impressive 28 in total. He closed the original New York L’Atelier at the Four Seasons in 2012, departing entirely from the New York restaurant scene. But he often told reporters that he would like to come back and try again. ulterior epicure/FlickrThe former L'Atelier in the Four Seasons in NYC, now closed.The new iteration of NYC's L’Atelier — the more affordable version of Robuchon’s series of eponymous restaurants — will open in March 2015 at Brookfield Place, formerly the World Financial Center. The new establishment will be 11,000 square feet with both counter and table seating, as well as a bar, lounge, and waterside outdoor area. Robuchon currently has one other American L’Atelier location in Las Vegas, which offers two prix fixe options ranging from $78 to $105 and items like foie gras ravioli and his famous Le Burger — a beef and foie gras burger with caramelized bell peppers.  sunday driver/FlickrLe Burger at Joël Robuchon's Hong Kong location.This will be Robuchon’s third restaurant in America, and 23rd in the world. Sometimes called the "chef of the century,” Robuchon became famous thanks to his first Paris restaurant, Jamin, which was regarded as one of the best restaurants in history.  After retiring from Jamin in the '90s, Robuchon re-emerged with a series of restaurants bearing his name and with his protégées at the helm. Now that he's coming back to New York City, the Michelin Guide should get ready to make another spot on its list. FREE AppDownload
