AP ImagesThousands rally in support of charter schools outside the Capitol in Albany, N.Y., on Tuesday, March 4, 2014. (AP Photo/Tim Roske)Editor's note: The authors are Maceo Marquez and Jessica Toonkel, and their daughter Elena Marquez is a first grader at Success Academy Cobble Hill. Last month, Mayor Bill de Blasio— who received the teachers union endorsement during his mayoral campaign—revoked plans to open three new Success Academy charter schools. The Success schools were supposed to co-locate in public school buildings rent-free. The plans had been approved toward the end of Mayor Michael Bloomberg's administration. Eva Moskovitz, a former NYC Councilwoman and the CEO of Success Academy, called it the "saddest day" in the charter school network's history. Shortly after, thousands of parents descended upon Albany to protest the decision. Governor Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat, threw his support behind the charter schools and their parents and students. Today, parents of students at Success Academy's Harlem Central have filed a lawsuit against New York City to reverse de Blasio's decision, Bloomberg News reported. __________________________________ As lifelong liberals, and one of us the child of teachers, we have historically been suspicious of charter schools.  But now we find ourselves spending a lot of our free time defending the existence of these institutions or worrying what will happen if Mayor de Blasio gets his way and forces these schools to shut down. Our daughter was one of the first kindergartners at Success Academy Cobble Hill when it opened its doors last year. We got in after months of being on the waiting list. People warned us to hold out, as the United Federation of Teachers would be suing the school to prevent it from opening (consider that for a moment). We watched our friends and neighbors withdraw their children before the school even opened in the flurry of anxiety created by the suit. As others left, our daughter slowly rose to the top of the waiting list and was accepted. The results have spoken for themselves: our daughter reads above grade level, she is a focused and diligent scholar with a love and aptitude for academics (at Success Academy, they use the term "scholars," not students). She plays chess at six! Most importantly, we see a lifelong learner, a child who writes in her diary nightly and who picks math books out of free bins so she can do the exercises in her free time. She wants to be a Cheetah veterinarian. As far as we’re concerned, the only reason these charter schools are controversial is because the teachers are non-union.  The mayor, after winning the endorsement of the teachers union in last November’s election, has now set his sights on making it difficult, if not impossible, for Success Academy and other schools like it to continue to grow. He is pushing for the closure of one Success school in Harlem, Success Academy Harlem Central Middle School, which incidentally was one of the best performing schools in the state last year. Unless he creates more receptive policies for public charter schools to co-locate in public school buildings, schools like ours may not be able to enroll new students in coming years. That means our daughter would have no comparable middle school to attend. We absolutely believe that teachers deserve reasonable protections that allow them to concentrate on their work with administrative and contractual support.  However, the union contract is hundreds of pages long, and the herculean effort required to fire a bad teacher is, unfortunately, well known to parents and administrators alike. And we believe in unions. One of us is a member of a union and has witnessed firsthand the benefits of that kind of protection. However, there have to be limits. And there needs to be accountability. Public charter schools are accountable to parents. They offer a choice, which is especially needed in neighborhoods in Harlem and Bed-Stuy and the South Bronx where traditional public schools are tragically failing children. Choice is also wanted in neighborhoods where parents might simply be seeking an alternative. Access to a great school should not depend on zip code, or income level, or a parent's own education level. All New York City children should have what our daughter has — a great school with well-trained, engaging teachers and a strong caring community. It's no surprise that 11,000 parents traveled to Albany to make their voices heard about their children's futures. It's just a shame that our city leaders couldn't be more supportive of these parents. Why would a Mayor choose, as one of his first actions in office, to close down a top school serving primarily low-income families? Why is he attempting to undo the work of dedicated teachers who put in over 50-hour weeks,  to deliver an excellent education to city kids with few choices? This is the question that all families and taxpayers should be asking. FREE AppDownload
