Screenshot via Bloomberg TVLate last year, NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran valued Tesla at $67. The stock was trading at about $170 then.  Now, Damodaran has revisited the stock in a new blog post, and is valuing it between $110 - $115. The stock is currently trading at $220, and is down from its all-time intra-day high of $265. Here's a look at Damodaran's assumptions: Damodaran says investors should consider three things when looking at Tesla. The first is the discounted cash flow (DCF). When it comes to this it's important to remember that Tesla will have to "make substantial infrastructure investments over the next decade, to deliver its growth potential." He also looks at buzzwords surrounding the automaker. Tesla has the trifecta: China, batteries, and disruptive. The company has announced that it is expanding into China, and building a Gigafactory to produce electric batteries. But for the $220 value, you need the battery business to add "about $90 billion to Tesla's annual revenues by the tenth year." It's also important to remember that other companies, like Honda, are also "in this disruption game." Finally, and this is the stuff from Damodaran we watch closely, he talks about 'keeping the faith'. "My investment philosophy is built on the foundation that you should buy an asset only if it trades at a price less than your estimated value for that asset, error-prone and uncertain though the latter may be," Damodaran writes. "It is true that I can offer no proof that my value is right, that the price is wrong or even if the first two assertions are true (right value, wrong price), that the price will adjust to the value, but is that not the essence of faith? That you believe, without proof! If I stay true to my philosophy, I cannot justify buying Tesla at the current price. Of course, a year from now, the stock may be at $400, but I will have no regrets, because I also believe that if you don't stand for something, you will fall for anything."  Note: Damodaran is not short Tesla and he does not plan to short the stock. And he doesn't believe his valuation is the 'right' valuation.  You can see Damodaran's valuation spreadsheet here » FREE AppDownload
