Amazon's EPS was worse than expected, though its revenue was right in line with expectations. Revenue guidance for next quarter was about in line with expectations, but it guided to a big loss. That sent the stock down about 10% after-hours. Here are the numbers: The operating loss for Q2 was $15 million, compared with operating income of $79 million in second quarter 2013. The net loss was $126 million. The thing that really stands out is operating loss guidance for next quarter of between $410 million and $810 million, compared to just $25 million a year ago. According to Bloomberg, analysts were only expecting a $10 million loss. This guidance includes about $410 million for stock-based compensation. On Amazon's earnings call, CFO Tom Szkutak also said that the company plans to spend more than $100 million on original video content in the third quarter. Amazon has a handful of new shows coming this year, all of which are available for free for its Amazon Prime customers (the Prime membership fee rose from $79 to $99 earlier this year). Here's a chart of Amazon's global revenues, from BI Intelligence: Business Insider Intelligence  This has been a big year for Amazon. The company just released its new Fire smartphone, and launched a bunch of other products this year, including a TV streaming box, an unlimited e-book subscription service, and a music-streaming service. Here's the official statement from CEO Jeff Bezos: We continue working hard on making the Amazon customer experience better and better. We’ve recently introduced Sunday delivery coverage to 25% of the U.S. population, launched European cross-border Two-Day Delivery for Prime, launched Prime Music with over one million songs, created three original kids TV series, added world-class parental controls to Fire TV with FreeTime, and launched Kindle Unlimited, an eBook subscription service. For our AWS customers we launched Amazon Zocalo, T2 instances, an SSD-backed EBS volume, Amazon Cognito, Amazon Mobile Analytics, and the AWS Mobile SDK, and we substantially reduced prices. And today customers all over the U.S. will begin receiving their new Fire phones — including Firefly, Dynamic Perspective, and one full year of Prime — we can’t wait to get them in customers’ hands. Here are Amazon's historic revenues: Amazon  Here's a look at the recent net income losses: Amazon Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
