Daniel Goodman / Business Insider   This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;       Business Insider is looking for a creative, hardworking Marketing Manager to join our growing team. You’ll play a central role in supporting user acquisition and promotion activities for all of Business Insider’s products – the website, events and subscription business. Business Insider is a dynamic company reaching the new generation of business leaders. We are a well-funded startup at the forefront of digital media. Our site is one of the fastest growing business news sites with more than 45 million unique monthly users. BI events (including our flagship conference, IGNITION) bring together the top senior executives and entrepreneurs in publishing and technology.  BI Intelligence, our subscription research service, provides leaders in-depth reports, charts, and data so they can make smarter business decisions.  Job OverviewThe Marketing Manager is responsible for developing and executing creative and strategic marketing programs for Business Insider brands. She or he will develop and execute communications plans targeted to consumers; write and execute promotional efforts for marketing campaigns – articles on the site, advertising copy, developing content and messaging – and partner with the design team on execution. Other responsibilities include using market research and competitive analysis to maintain pulse on changing habits/needs/trends in the business, for both consumers and competitive digital publishers; create, allocate and manage marketing spend by monitoring ROI and managing outside partners; and manage digital programs that drive traffic to our products – PPC, display ads, social ads, email, conversation optimization. If this role is for you, here are some of the traits you possess: The role offers a unique chance to immerse in marketing, research and business journalism with a dynamic, entrepreneurial team. The ideal candidate has at least 4 years of marketing experience. Please apply here. Thanks in advance. FREE AppDownload
