President Barack Obama is to promise a ‘year of action’ in his State of the Union address on Tuesday as he pledges to help restore the American dream to the country’s hard-pressed middle classes ahead of this year’s Congressional elections. With personal-approval ratings in the doldrums, a congress controlled by Republican rivals and his flagship health reforms still struggling, Mr Obama will deliver the annual address in the face of strong political headwinds. However, aides promised that Mr Obama would seek to bypass Congress wherever possible to push through his stalling second-term agenda. "The president sees this as a year of action, to work with Congress where he can and to bypass Congress where necessary. To lift folks who want to come up into the middle class,” said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary. The minimum wage ranks among Mr Obama’s top domestic priorities, alongside boosting investment in education and immigration reform. Many of the president’s pledges and demands from 2013 such as universal pre-schooling remain unfulfilled, however aides have pointed to a series of executive orders on climate change as an example of what could be achieved without Congress. “You can do a lot,” said Dan Pfeiffer, a senior adviser to Mr Obama, adding that the president was not going “to wait for Congress” but would use all his other powers around the edges, starting with a three-city tour this week to take his message to the public. Republicans have already signalled that they will respond by painting Mr Obama as a lame-duck president who has failed to deliver concrete improvements on jobs and simply bemoaned inequality instead of creating greater opportunity. The party’s weekly address accused Mr Obama of pushing for “more regulations, more taxes, higher utility bills and health-care turmoil”, which they contend has damaged the economy. Scott Walker, the governor of Wisconsin who is tipped to run for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016, said Mr Obama should talk about people — not programmes — and drive a manufacturing revival by valuing “welders or fabricators” as much as “doctors and lawyers”. “If he really wants to bring us together, talk about things that Republicans and Democrats can agree on,” he told Fox News. Republicans are also expected to use the occasion to try and improve their standing with women by awarding the honour of replying to State of the Union address to Cathy McMorris Rodgers, their highest-ranking female Congresswoman and a mother of three. The speech is expected to be watched by some 30 million viewers — far less than the 53.2 million that tuned into the president’s 2009 address. Guests in the First Lady’s box are to include two victims of last April’s Boston Marathon bombings, the fire chief of an Oklahoma town devastated by a tornado last May and a schoolboy inventor whose “marshmallow cannon” was praised by Mr Obama at a White House science fair.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
