OMEGAStill great, even in a low-yield environment.— A look back at prior stock market pullbacks illustrates how bonds have historically provided good diversification benefits. — Even in a low-yield environment, bonds provide a buffer as price movements, not yields, are the primary buffer to equity movements. — An allocation to core bonds, in addition to less interest rate sensitive sectors such as high-yield bonds and bank loans, may make sense for investors. Strong equity market performance in 2013 and still-low yields may cause investors to overlook the fact that bonds can still serve as an effective diversification tool.  Following a year in which stocks returned 30% and bonds posted their worst return since 1994*, investor sentiment for stocks remains positive while bond sentiment is poor. The divergence in sentiment is evident in actual investment dollars. Inflows into stock mutual funds totaled $168 billion in 2013 versus a rare outflow for bonds, which totaled $82 billion. Our 2014 forecast calls for 10% to 15% returns for stocks and another challenging year for bonds with returns roughly flat. The case for stock investing is strong but pullbacks can arrive without warning. As mentioned in our Outlook 2014, we expect more volatility this year. In 2013, the stock market experienced only one brief pullback of just over 5%. Historically such calm is rare. Looking beyond 2014 the case for stocks over bonds is compelling, but for investors with shorter-term horizons protection against an equity market sell-off is prudent. After all, the average annual peak-to-trough decline in the S&amp;P 500 from 1960 to 2013 has been 16%, and pullbacks can arrive without warning. Investors need to be prepared and bonds can help provide a buffer. A look back at prior stock market pullbacks illustrates how bonds have historically provided good diversification benefits. Figure 1 shows all equity market pullbacks of 5% or more lasting three weeks or more over the past 10 years and the corresponding return for stocks and high-quality bonds. Figure 1 also illustrates the hypothetical return of a balanced 60% stock/40% bond portfolio and the dampening impact bonds can have on stock weakness. During stock market pullbacks in excess of 5%, bonds outperformed stocks on average by a double digit margin, a significant difference. Excluding the historic mid-2008 to early-2009 sell-off, the performance differential narrows but is still notable at a 9.6% advantage in favor of high-quality bonds. LPL Financial In a few cases, both stocks and bonds declined together. This is a troubling outcome and reflects a failure of diversification, but it is rare. Still, bonds managed to outperform stocks on those occasions. In 2008, high-quality bonds provided a buffer but not without volatility, as investment-grade corporate bonds declined for the year and even high-quality mortgage-backed securities (MBS) suffered brief declines. While not all segments of the bond market perform similarly every time, an allocation to high-quality bonds has proven effective at offsetting stock market weakness. Not About Yield Today’s low-yield environment does not negate the diversification benefit of bonds. During 2012, the stock market suffered two pullbacks greater than 5%, and bonds rose more than 1% over each period. The 10-year Treasury yield varied between 1.4% and 1.9% during the 2012 equity market sell-offs, much lower than today’s level. In fact, during each stock market pullback in Figure 1 bond market performance is fairly consistent, averaging 1%, despite varied levels of interest rates. Two of the bond market’s strongest gains during stock market sell-offs occurred in 2010 and 2011, a post-recession period in which yields had already declined sharply. Over short-term periods, price movement, not interest income, is the primary driver of bond performance. Interest income accrues slowly and although the primary driver of long-term bond returns, price changes, up or down, often overwhelm the impact of interest income over short periods of time. Therefore, a low-yield environment does not preclude bonds acting as a diversification tool.  Pension Buyers Pension plans represent another investor group that can use bonds to help achieve a specific objective. Pension investors, who have a very long time horizon and are therefore less sensitive to interest rate movements, use bonds to offset their long-term liabilities.  Robust equity market gains in 2013 improved pension funding ratios broadly and reduced the need to take on additional risk to achieve investment goals. Following a year in which equities gained 30%, pension buyers took advantage of long-term Treasury yields near 4% and long-term corporate bond yields above 5% [Figure 2] to better balance the risk-reward profile of their investment portfolios. Pension buying, which has been a steady source of demand so far in 2014 and one reason why bonds are off to a good start, illustrates another way in which bonds can address specific investor objectives. LPL Financial Conclusion Low yields will likely translate into lower long-term bond returns, and therefore the hurdle for stock investors to beat bond performance over the long term is lower. However, for investors with shorter horizons or those simply unwilling to endure stock market swings, bonds can play a diversification role even in today’s low-yield environment. In conjunction with sectors that historically hold up better against rising rates, such as high-yield bonds and bank loans, an allocation to core bonds makes sense to help protect against potential stock market weakness. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
