REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschThe ECB press conference has begun. In his introductory statement, Mario Draghi unveiled targeted longer term refinancing operations (TLTROs). The initial size of TLTROs is about €400 billion and all TLTROs will mature in September 2018, or in about 4 years. Two successive TLTROS will be conducted in September and December 2014. "From March 2015 to June 2016 all counter parties will be able to borrow quarterly up to three times the amount of their net lending to the euro area non-financial private sector, excluding loans to households," said Draghi. The ECB is "intensifying preparatory work for outright purchases in the ABS [asset backed securities] market." It will also suspend its weekly securities market program (SMP) sterilization. The euro is moving lower after these comments. The ECB cut its 2015 GDP forecast to 1% in 2014, from previous forecast of 1.2% growth. It expects 1.7% GDP growth in 2015, up from previous forecast of 1.5%. Finally, it projects 1.8% growth in 2016. The Q&amp;A has begun. Here are the key highlights: The ECB press conference is now over. Even as Draghi was speaking we got this from Kit Juckes at Societe Generale: "Mr Draghi is still speaking, but the gist is that he is doing everything short of full QE to support the economy, and that will be reflected in stronger asset prices generally," Juckes said in an email. "...And the carrot of full QE is still dangling in front of us." Click here for Draghi's introductory statement in full » ----------- The European Central Bank just announced a historic rate cut, pushing interest rates into negative territory. Specifically, the ECB cut the deposit rate to -0.1%, from 0.0%, effective from June 11, 2014. At 8:30 a.m. ET, ECB president Mario Draghi will come center-stage as he addresses this morning's rate cut.  At 9:30 a.m. ET we will have a press conference that is more technical in nature, according to Richard Gilhooly at TD Securities. He could announce further actions to fight weak growth and low inflation in the eurozone. Markets are watching for any announcements on an asset purchase program, or quantitative easing.  Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics doesn't expect the ECB to fire any sort of bazooka today though. Click here for the LiveStream. FREE AppDownload
