Wikimedia CommonsGet ready. There's a huge wave of economic data coming this week. The all-important April U.S. jobs report will be published on Friday. Before that, we'll get an estimate of Q1 U.S. GDP growth. We'll also get the results of manufacturing surveys (PMI and ISM) from around the world. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the Federal Open Market Committee will meet and then update us on the direction of monetary policy. We'll also get two report on the housing market, which has suddenly come up on everyone's radar screens. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary The price-earnings multiple on the stock market is well above average. And over the long run, these multiples tend to revert to the historic average, which means either prices will fall or profits will eventually catch up to prices. In the short-run, however, there's no telling what these multiples will do. Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker pushed back on the belief that we were doomed for multiple-mean reversion: "At nearly every meeting we have done lately, we have heard that multiple contraction is more likely than multiple expansion. People could be right that the market multiple will contract, but we doubt they can provide empirical evidence to support this claim... Low management hubris in terms of capital spending, hiring, inventory, and M&amp;A, and high interest coverage make the top of the cycle unlikely to occur in the next 12 months. Hence, we think the multiple can creep toward 16x or more 12 months out. We can’t show that with data, but we know the counterfactual can’t be shown either. The part of the argument we really don’t like is the part where people say that the multiple expanded a lot last year, so that increases the odds of less or no multiple expansion or even contraction this year. That’s baloney. Analysis please? The fact is that knowing that there was a large change in last year’s multiple does not forecast a down or even a lower expansion in this year’s multiple. The only three times in history that the market multiple expanded as much as it did in 2013 (by 3 turns), the subsequent year saw strong market performance all three times. We aren’t claiming statistical significance, just saying that a large rally can be followed by a nicely up market again the subsequent year..." Parker has a 2,014 year-end price target for the S&amp;P 500, which is 8% higher than current levels. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
