Brendan McDermid/ReutersVictoria's Secret model Alessandra Ambrosio reveals the Floral Fantasy Bra gift set at Victoria's Secret store in New York, October 18, 2012. The Victoria's Secret Fashion Show is in London for the first time. More than 40 models including Adriana Lima, Candice Swanepoel and Karlie Kloss will take to the catwalk later to showcase the lingerie brand's latest products. The show's arrival in the capital suggests the underwear empire is continuing its focus to expand beyond the US. But how did the American company grow into one of the most-talked-about brands today? The story of Victoria’s Secret starts in the 1970s, when 30-year-old business graduate Roy Raymond wanted to buy some lingerie for his wife. Walking into a department store, he found the experience an embarrassing one and decided there was a gap in the market for a high end store that would cater for men, as well as women. In 1977, Mr Raymond took out a $40,000 bank loan and $40,000 borrowed from relatives to open his first Victoria’s Secret shop in a shopping mall in California. Inspired by 19th century England, his store was decorated with dark wood, red velvet sofas and silk drapes, a contrast to the garish department store offerings at the time. Lucas Jackson/ReutersModels dance during the finale of the annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in New York, November 13, 2013.The company earned $500,000 its first year. And by the time Mr Raymond sold the business in 1982 for about $1m, Victoria’s Secret had five stores and a mail-order catalogue that made $6m a year. By the early 1990s, Victoria’s Secret had become the largest American lingerie retailer, with 350 stores and sales topping in excess of $1bn. However, it was struggling to compete with lower-priced brands and owner Leslie Wexner, creator of The Limited clothing business, needed something radical to take the brand to the next level. The breakthrough came in 1995, when the brand launched the first of its notorious Victoria’s Secret fashion shows. A relatively traditional affair, with models wearing simple lingerie, it wasn’t until three years later that angel wings appeared on the runway modelled by Tyra Banks. By 2000, the shows began to take a lavish turn and the $15m price tag for the ruby and diamond encrusted bra worn by supermodel Gisele Bündchen was then the most expensive item of lingerie ever created. Now no Victoria’s Secret fashion show is complete without a multimillion pound “Fantasy Bra”, and one model is typically chosen to wear it each show. Miranda Kerr, Heidi Klum and Adriana Lima have all worn it in the last decade. This year's notorious Dream Angels Fantasy Bra, designed for Victoria's Secret by jeweller Mouawad, will be worn by two models for the first time, Adriana Lima and Alessandra Ambrosio. The bras are valued at $2m each and decorated with 16,000 handset precious gems, accompanied by body pieces of fine gemstones strung together with 18-carat gold. The brand chooses models which it thinks women will relate to, but came under fire earlier this year for adverts suggesting that its slim models have ‘the perfect body’. The fashion shows, costing around $15m (£10m) to stage, are set against performances by A-list artists which have included Taylor Swift, Katy Perry and Usher, and are a key part of the business. Justin Bieber, Rihanna and Bruno Mars appear with models during the Victoria's Secrets fashion show finale at Lexington Armory in New York Victoria’s Secret now has more than 1000 shops in the US and controls 35pc of the country’s lingerie market. Sales were $6.6bn in 2013 and the company is worth around $1.9bn. In 2012, the brand opened its first stores in London and the company entered mainland China this year, as it looks to grow the brand’s presence in Asia. Today’s Victoria’s Secret fashion show at the Earls Court Exhibition Centre is the first time it has come to the city and is only the second time the event has left the US, after transferring to Cannes in France in 2000. FREE AppDownload
