There is no shortage of housing in most U.S. metro areas.  There is a shortage of housing in the areas most attractive to today's young and affluent urban pioneers.  Their efforts to increase supply in cities, in the most desirable areas, is misguided and could ultimately cause more harm than good.There is a spreading meme that the dominance of single-family zoning districts in major cities is artificially reducing housing supply. Economists like Harvard professor Edward Glaeser have been stating for some time that super-tight regulation of land use in large metro areas has depressed housing construction, through a complex mix of zoning districts, air rights, historic preservation districts or byzantine permitting approvals and NIMBY-oriented residents  Others, like Matt Yglesias, have made the same point, and it's becoming increasingly common among a growing group of young urbanists seeking to address their most pertinent concerns.Admittedly, there is a shred of truth to this in many coastal metros, and in a select group of interior metros like Chicago.  They are, in fact, not adding new housing supply relative to the demand for housing.  Yglesias showed this in a recent article in which he suggests that the lack of recovery in the housing industry is a drain on the national economy.  He uses two charts to make the claim; he compares the number of housing permits authorized between Houston and the San Francisco Bay Area: FRED and for Atlanta and Boston: FRED True enough, Houston adds more units than the Bay Area, and Atlanta adds more than Boston.  But there are other factors contributing to that besides land use regulations: However, in answering his own question in a recent blog post, blogger Daniel Kay Hertzsheds some light on the thought process behind the growing meme: "Why are there no apartment buildings in your standard affluent single-family-home neighborhood, common in metro areas from Chicago to Kansas City to New York to Memphis? Not because people don’t want to live in them. Not because you couldn’t make money by building them. They don’t exist because they’re illegal." The emphasis is added because it highlights the salient point, which can be reduced to this: "why isn't there more housing where I want it?" Because there are plenty of apartment buildings with plenty of vacancies in other parts of the city.  Let's fill those up, and then talk. If young urbanists are serious about moving back to the city, maybe they ought to consider more of the city to live in.  For every highly desirable attractive urban neighborhood, even in the most in-demand metro areas, there are just as many languishing neighborhoods that aren't even part of the conversation.  For every Lincoln Park or Lakeview in Chicago that lacks affordable housing, there is a Garfield Park or Woodlawn with tons of it.Let's dig deeper into Chicago. I recently wrote a post where I tried to define the differences between the most in-demand parts of Chicago with the rest of the city.  In it, I identified what I called "Global Core Chicago": Google EArth The area highlighted in green corresponds roughly to the ten Chicago Community Areas (Chicago's officially designated neighborhoods) that make up Global Core Chicago.  Let's see how it compares with the balance of the city, which could be called Rust Belt Chicago, on a few data points: Census The data is from the 2012 Census American Community Survey.  You know what I see?  I see a "Global Core Chicago" that, in terms of density alone, already looks very similar to the most desirable urban areas in the nation, like New York, Boston, Washington, DC and San Francisco.  Not only does this core have 55% more people per square mile than the remaining parts of the city, it already has 2.2 times more dwelling units than the rest of the city.  A big factor in this disparity is the difference in household size -- households in the global core are only two-thirds the size of those in the rest of the city.  And this makes no mention of the income and wealth differences between the two parts of the city. I don't believe we should be talking about expanding the global core at its margins.  We should be talking about expanding development throughout the city.  If young affluents are serious about returning to cities, they should consider Austin, Bronzeville, Woodlawn and South Shore, and not just Wicker Park and Logan Square. The same applies to every metro area in the nation.We haven't learned.  This push for more affordable housing in affluent city neighborhoods, because we like it there, is akin to the push for more suburban housing at the urban outskirts 60 years ago.  "The demand is there!  Accommodate our needs!"  And that led directly to a disinvestment in cities from which we are only now beginning to recover from.We must be really careful in what we ask for in the development of our cities.  Simply requesting relaxed land use regulations so that more units will be built could result in serious unintended consequences.  Doing so in Chicago, and in many cities around the nation, would result in a spurt of housing growth in the most desirable areas -- and in the most desirable areas only.  The global core would add far more units relative to the rest of the city.  It would not reduce residential and economic segregation, it would increase it, and contribute to one of the most vexing problems of our cities today -- the exploding bifurcation of our cities by race, class and opportunity. Doing so would result in cities made up of contiguous enclaves of affluent, dense, walkable and self-sufficient communities.  They would be beautiful, and they would be made up of the kind of development that is most preferable to me.  Yet they would be adjacent to yet wholly disconnected from half-empty expanses of impoverished, working class and middle class neighborhoods.  I can't reconcile that in my mind.Do we really want that?  Can't we do better than that? This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
