ISMUPDATE (11:29 a.m. ET): ISM published a correction to its 10:00 a.m report. It's now saying that the headline index climbed to 56.0 from 54.9 a month ago. EARLIER (10:00 a.m. ET): The May ISM manufacturing report is out, and it's a miss. The headline index unexpectedly fell to 53.2  from 54.9 in April. Still, any reading above 50 signals growth, and this is the twelfth straight such reading. "Slightly disappointing but it just brings the ISM into line with the signal from China's PMI, which has softened since the end of last year," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "China is not the biggest market for U.S. exporters but has a disproportionate influence on short-term movements in the ISM. From ISM: Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 17 are reporting growth in May in the following order: Furniture &amp; Related Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Machinery; Transportation Equipment; Chemical Products; Paper Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; Wood Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Plastics &amp; Rubber Products. No industry reported contraction in May. Here are some of the anecdotes that the ISM collected in its survey. Earlier today, we learned that Markit's manufacturing PMI climbed to 56.4 in May from 55.4 in April. "With the exception of a brief spell in early-2010, output is growing at the fastest rate seen since prior to the financial crisis," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "The unexpected decline in the US ISM manufacturing index to a three-month low of 53.2 in May, from 54.9, contrasts with the improvement in the regional activity surveys and the national Markit PMI," said Capital Economics' Amna Asaf. "Even global manufacturing activity has been gradually improving. All this suggests that the ISM index will rebound in June." FREE AppDownload
