Christina Kelly — the estranged wife of Jefferies healthcare banker Sage Kelly — has issued an apology to the investment bank.  "A substantial portion of what has been written in the press and other media over the past few weeks is inaccurate, untrue or hyperbolic, and I apologize to those who have been affected thereby — including those at Jefferies and those associated with Jefferies," Kelly said in a signed statement. She didn't specifically point out what was inaccurate or untrue in the media reports. Bloomberg News reported that Kelly's attorney also declined to comment on whether she would walk back her accusations made in her affidavit. Last month, in a 26-page sworn affidavit as part of a divorce proceeding and custody battle seeking $7 million in damages, Kelly, who has two daughters with Sage, said her husband and numerous Jefferies bankers and clients had abused cocaine. All of the Jefferies bankers and clients named in the affidavit categorically denied her allegations.  Kelly also alleged that her husband had used other illicit substances like ecstasy, molly, mushrooms, and ketamine. She also accused him of having extramarital sex, including an alleged partner swap with a client and his girlfriend.  Shortly after the allegations were circulated in the media, Sage Kelly took a leave of absence from Jefferies. The firm's CEO Richard Handler later issued a public memo showing his support for Sage Kelly and the Jefferies team. He also said that the team volunteered to take a drug test and that everyone passed. Here's a copy of Kelly's full statement:  After careful consideration and in the best interests of our children, Sage and I have reached an amicable custody arrangement that ensures loving homes for our children.  The presentation of facts in divorce proceedings is a function of subjective viewpoints. When a person's statements in a divorce proceeding become public, there is a danger that the publication of those statements can create misimpressions that, regrettably can cause unintended harm to innocent individuals.  A substantial portion of what has been written in the press and other media over the past few weeks is inaccurate, untrue, or hyperbolic, and I apologize to those who have been affected thereby — including those at Jefferies and those associated with Jefferies.  Sage is an individual of high integrity. He is a great father who deeply loves our children. While it is unfortunate when a marriage ends, Sage and I are fortunate that our family is moving forward, with our children as the centerpiece. We are both fully committed to co-parenting our children.  FREE AppDownload
