After a long day at work, no one wants to get in the car, drive over to Sports Authority, and start hunting for a pair of running sneakers that won't break the bank. So Business Insider is here to make life easier. With Insider Picks, we're going to round up everyday items to help you save time and money. First up, the workout essentials that every man needs this winter. If you're still wearing ratty 15-year-old workout shorts form your college days, it's officially time to throw them out. Since shorts are probably the most important work-out staple, we recommend getting a pair that won't rip after a trip or two to the gym this winter. NikeNike 7" Distance Running ShortsNike 7" Distance Running Shorts | Nike Adidas Essentials ClimaLite Shorts | Amazon Under Armour Escape Woven Shorts | Amazon Nike Dri-Fit Stay Cool Running Shorts | Amazon (Prime Eligible) On the particularly cold days, you're going to want to have a pair of long workout pants on hand. Especially if you like to go for chilly, early morning runs. NikeNike Element Thermal Nike Element Thermal | Nike Under Armour Men’s UA ColdGear(R) Infrared Run Pants | Amazon Adidas Men’s Condivo 14 Training Pants | Amazon ASCIS Men’s Thermopolis LT Pant | Amazon New Balance Men’s Raptor Stretch Pant | Amazon But if you feel like baggy pants may slow you down, check out compression leggings. Nike Reflective Tech | Nike Compression shorts are supposed to — as you may have guessed — compress and separate groin and thigh muscles in order to prevent irritation and injury. They also help keep muscles warm during colder seasons. On top of that, people swear compression shorts make them run faster.  AmazonUnder Armour Men’s HeatGear Sonic Compression Shorts Under Armour Men’s HeatGear Sonic Compression Shorts | Amazon Nike Pro Combat Hypercool Vapor Power Compression Shorts  | Nike Nike Pro Combat Core 2.0 Compression | Nike Sub Sports COLD Men’s Thermal Compression Base Shorts | Amazon  Different workouts require different types of sneakers. For any exercise that involves lateral movement (including weight training and kick-boxing), you're going to need training sneakers. Their flatter design makes side-to-side movement easier and safer. NikeNike Lunar Trainer 1 Nike Lunar Trainer 1 | Nike New Balance Men’sMX608V3 Cross Training Shoe | Amazon Prime ASICS Men's GEL-Craze TR Cross-Training Shoe | Amazon Nike Men's Free Trainer 5.0 Training Shoe | Amazon  Men’s UA Micro G® Renegade Training Shoes | Under Armour Nike Zoom Hypercross TR | Nike     On the other hand, if you're a heavy duty runner, you should invest in a pair of running sneakers. Since running is mostly forwards moving, the sneaker has a slightly elevated heel — which gives your knees a break. Nike Men’s Free Running Shoe | Amazon AmazonNike Men’s Free Running ShoeNike Air Zoom Structure 18 Flash iD | Nike  Nike Dart 10 Men’s Running Shoes | Amazon Faas 700 V2 Men’s Running Shoes | Amazon Adidas Performance Men’s Marathon 10 Ng M Running Shoe | Amazon AmazonUnder Armour Men's HeatGear® Sonic Compression Short Sleeve For shirts, you're going to want something lightweight and airy. Bonus: these can double as undershirts. Nike Dri-Fit Racing Short Sleeve | Nike Nike Men's Legend Dri Fit Short Sleeve Tee | Amazon Nike Men's Pro Combat Hypercool Fitted Digital Rain Training Shirt-Charcoal | Amazon If you're someone who sweats a lot, you might want to try out a sweat resistant shirt: The Thompson Tee Men's Hydro-Shield Sweat Proof Technology | Amazon Compression shirts are also an option. Again, fans swear that they improve speed: AmazonASICS Men's Circuit-7 Warm Up Running Shirt SleevelessUnder Armour Men's HeatGear® Sonic Compression Short Sleeve | Amazon Prime But not everyone's a fan of sleeves since they constrict arm movement. If that's how you feel, a sleeveless workout top is the way to go. ASICS Men's Circuit-7 Warm Up Running Shirt Sleeveless | Amazon Prime AmazonFlipBelt Behold: a fanny pack that's actually appropriate in 2014. Having to carry your keys, smartphone, and other things around the gym is a hassle. But the FlipBelt is just large enough to hold all those things without being a nuisance. FlipBelt | Amazon If you're a serious runner, we recommend picking up a pair of running shorts. They're lighter and shorter than typical men's shorts, which makes them ideal for running. AmazonUnder Armour Men's UA HeatGear® Flyweight Run Shorts Under Armour Men's UA HeatGear® Flyweight Run Shorts | Amazon New Balance Men's 5-Inch Go 2 Shorts | Amazon Asics Men's Core Pocketed Short | Amazon Nike Men's 5 Inch Phenom 2-in-1 Running Short - Su14 | Amazon Never work out without socks. You will 100% get athlete's foot. AmazonNike Men's Dri-Fit Cushioned Crew Socks Nike Men's Dri-Fit Cushioned Crew Socks (3 pairs) | Amazon Nike Men's Performance Moisture-Wicking Crew Socks (6 Pairs) | Amazon adidas Men's Cushioned 3ST 3-Pack QTR Sock | Amazon Puma Low Cut Socks for Men (6 pairs) | Amazon Weight lifting gloves are the way to avoid calluses and blisters, especially if you're going to tackle the bench press. If you want weight lifting gloves that provide more control, get a lightly padded pair. Under Armour Men's CTR Trainer HF Gloves | Amazon But if you're looking for more comfort, you should get a heavily padded pair. AmazonUnder Armour Men's CTR Trainer HF Gloves Harbinger 1250 Training Grip WristWrap Glove | Amazon Now that it's getting colder, it's important to keep your muscles warm. After your workout, even if you're feeling hot and sweaty, you should put on sweatshirt when you step outside. It's the best and easiest way to prevent injuries and pulled muscles. AmazonNike AW77 Fleece Full-Zip Men’s Nike AW77 Fleece Full-Zip Men’s | Amazon Under Armour Men's UA ColdGear® Infrared Run Hoodie | Amazon  Champion Eco Fleece Crew | Amazon Same purpose as the sweatshirt. Don't let your leg muscles get cold and cramped up after your workout. Nike Varsity | Nike Men's UA Post Up Cargo Jogger Pants | Under Armour Nike Mens Club Swoosh SweatPants | Amazon adidas Slim 3-Stripes Sweat Pants | Adidas Everyone has that one pair of lucky gym shorts. Inevitably, after months — or years — of wear, the draw-string will accidentally get pulled out or stuck somewhere in the waistband.  Easy Threader Flexible Needle Drawstring replacement and craft tool | Amazon Different workouts, different headphones. If you're a runner, the smaller ones that fit in your ears are the way to go. But if you're planning a more stationary workout such as lifting, feel free to check out some of the more trendy, larger sized headphones. AmazonBeats Solo 2.0 On-Ear Headphones Beats Solo 2.0 On-Ear Headphones | Amazon Skullcandy S2IKDY-010 Ink'd 2.0 Earbud Headphones with Mic | Amazon We're guessing that you're not going to walk to work carrying all these things in your hands. Save yourself the hassle, make your life easier, and get yourself a lightweight duffel bag to hold all of your gym essentials.  Chafing — not ideal. Bodyglide will help prevent your legs from getting irritated while running. Bodyglide Original Anti-Chafe Balm | Amazon  AmazonNike Hoops Elite Max Air Team We're guessing that you're not going to walk to work carrying all these things in your hands. Save yourself the hassle, make your life easier, and get yourself a lightweight duffel bag to hold all of your gym essentials.  Nike Hoops Elite Max Air Team (Large) | Nike 21" Deluxe Gym Sports Duffle Bag with Shoe Storage | Amazon         Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
