Clinton Hill is on the rise. An influx of residential buildings are flooding into the small neighborhood that borders Fort Greene, replacing a local funeral parlor, gas stations, the post office and even a White Castle. Two new developments were recently completed and 11 more are underway in Clinton Hill, adding more than 1,000 apartment in the neighborhood, according to developers. Some sites, such as 93 Waverly Ave. and 96 Steuben St., which were completed earlier this year, offer luxury amenities such as a doorman, individual rooftop vegetable and herb gardens, courtyards and views of the Manhattan skyline. Other developments, like the 240-unit development in the former Pratt Post Office location, promise to bring affordable housing and new ground-floor businesses to the neighborhood. "There is a definite uptick in new developments in Clinton Hill," said David Maundrell, founder and president of aptsandlofts.com, who said the area's rising popularity is boosted by its proximity to Barclays Center, the Brooklyn Navy Yard, Fort Greene and Downtown Brooklyn."It's a great area — It is more 'neighborhood-y' that Downtown Brooklyn and more affordable than Fort Greene. And Myrtle Avenue has come a long way in the last decade," he added. In the last quarter, more than a third of all condo sales in new developments in Brooklyn took place in Clinton Hill, according to a MNS Real Estate report.Wikimedia Commons This development was completed early this year and contains 17 units throughout the buildings. The loft-like residences feature double height ceilings and many have private outdoor space in addition to a communal roof with individual vegetable and herb gardens for each resident, according to aptsandlofts.com. All units are currently leased. This seven-story, 35-unit building was completed earlier this year and features a common courtyard, doorman and roof deck with views of Manhattan. Unit prices range from $2,500 for a one-bedroom to $3,800 for a two-bedroom. Some units are still available to rent. The Daten Group purchased the Coastal Gas station lot for $7.4 million and plans to demolish the structure to build a 40,000-square-foot building with 38 apartments.  The new building will also have 5,000 square feet of retail space on the first floor. The former post office, located at 524 Myrtle Ave., will soon be home to an eight-story, 240-unit residential building with 20 percent of units under market rate. Another building at 492 Myrtle Ave. will also be eight stories and contain 240 units. Construction is underway, but it is unclear when the buildings will be complete. Leasing started earlier this year for the seven-story, 32-unit building, which leases the ground floor retail space to “A Kid’s Dream” hair salon. The building at 266 Greene Ave. will have four stories with three rental units, according to permits filed with the Department of Buildings. It is unclear when construction will be complete. Construction is underway on a five-story building that will have 38 apartments and 19 parking spaces. The building will be “finished with a dark grey facade and sleek modern windows by the end of next summer,” according to Fort Greene Focus. The property is being developed by Queens-based Kahen Properties, according to DOB records. A seven-story, 23-unit building with commercial space on the ground floor was recently approved by the Department of Buildings. It is unclear when the building will be complete. Construction on a seven-story apartment building with 18 apartments is underway on Classon Avenue near Fulton Street, according to DOB records. It is unclear when the project will be complete. This property, once the site of a funeral parlor, will be a six-story residential building with 28 units plus laundry, bike parking, balconies and shared outdoor space, according to Massey Knakal Realty. This seven-story, 35-unit building, designed by Isaac and Stern Architects, may also contain commercial space on the ground floor. It will be complete in the fall of 2015, according to Fort Greene Focus. Architect Karl Fischer is planning to replace the former White Castle on Myrtle Avenue with a five-story, 27-unit residential building with 5,900-square-feet of commercial space. This article originally appeared at DNAinfo.com.  Copyright 2014. Follow DNAinfo.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
