REUTERS/Reuters TVRurik Jutting, a 29-year-old British banker who has been charged with two counts of murder, sits in a police van as it arrives at a court in Hong Kong in this November 3, 2014 still image provided by Reuters TV. Just minutes before meeting one of two Indonesian women he is alleged to have murdered, British banker Rurik Jutting invited another woman back to his luxury Hong Kong flat but she turned him down because she thought he was behaving "strangely". The woman, an Indonesian nanny who asked not to be named, claimed that at around 1.30am last Saturday – just over two hours before police were called to Mr Jutting's home and found two corpses – the Cambridge graduate approached her and a friend at a nightclub called the New Makati Pub &amp; Disco. "He said, 'Hi, girls. Where are you from? How old are you?'" the mother-of-three told The Telegraph. Mr Jutting, 29, bought a round of drinks – an orange juice and two shots of tequila – for the group and after around ten minutes talking invited one of the women to accompany him home. However, she turned the former Bank of America Merrill Lynch employee down because she wanted to stay with her friends and had felt unnerved by his erratic behaviour. "I said, 'No, I'm with my friends. I'm just here to party with my friends,'" recalled the woman, who is from Surabaya, Indonesia's second largest city, and has lived in the former British colony for four years. The woman, who gave her age as "thirty something", claimed she had watched Mr Jutting pacing repeatedly around the packed nightclub, occasionally grabbing women, before he came to talk to her. "He was just walking around and around and around," said the woman, who works as a nanny for a Hong Kong Chinese family. "It was strange. I didn't understand why. He looked happy but I didn't understand why he was moving around all the time." After Mr Jutting's invitation was declined, he turned his attentions to another Indonesian woman who was at the same club, the woman claimed. That woman was Seneng Mujiasih, 29, one of two women Mr Jutting has been accused of murdering, according to the nanny. Police believe the British banker invited Ms Mujiasih, who was better known as Jesse Lorena, to his 31st floor flat before killing her there. Five days earlier, on October 27, Mr Jutting is alleged to have murdered another woman, a 25-year-old mother-of-one who has been named as Sumatra Ningsih. Mr Jutting, who resigned from his high-paid job at the end of October, has been charged with double murder and is reportedly being held at the maximum security Siu Lam Psychiatric Centre. The prison was founded in 1972 and describes itself as a unit for "male and female prisoners in all categories (sentenced or on remand) and detainees who require psychiatric observation, treatment, assessment or special psychological care". Mr Jutting is due back in court on Monday. The Indonesian nanny said she had been shocked to learn that two women had been found dead at a flat to which she had been invited shortly before the second murder. "I felt sad," she said. "I was lucky."  FREE AppDownload
