UStreamFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen.Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is speaking after the Fed released its latest monetary policy statement. As Yellen speaks, the dollar is sliding, as it did immediately after the release of the Fed's statement. Yellen said that the labor market continues to make "gradual progress" towards the Fed's objectives, but it still hasn't recovered.  Yellen said that third quarter GDP appears to be expanding at a moderate pace.  Yellen said inflation has "firmed some" since earlier in the year, and said the FOMC sees a decreased likelihood that inflation will continue to run below 2%, the Fed's stated inflation goal. Yellen said the central tendency of unemployment rate projections in the Fed's latest Summary of Economic Projections is slightly lower than it was in June. Real GDP projections run "somewhat above" the estimates for normal longer-run growth.  Yellen reiterated that the Fed expects to end its QE program at its next meeting, and will continue its policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing securities.  Keeping "considerable time" in the Fed's statement is based on the FOMC's assessment of the labor market, inflation, and readings on financial developments. Yellen said the FOMC sees economic conditions, for some time, warranting keeping short-term interest rates below what the FOMC views as normal over the long run.  Yellen said the FOMC now expects to establish a target range, rather than a single point, for interest rates when it begins raising rates, and added that the dots are the midpoint of the expected target range for FOMC members. Yellen emphasized that the FOMC's view of the path of future interest rates are contingent on the economic outlook. If the economy improves quicker than expected, a faster than expected increase in rates would follow; if the economy improves at a pace slower than the Fed expects, then rates would increase slower than the FOMC may currently expect.  In discussing some of the Fed's plans for exiting QE and raising rates, it says that it will use the overnight reverse repo facility only as needed, eventually phasing it out. Yellen said that the Fed also intends to reduce its holdings gradually as it sees appropriate. Yellen said the Fed doesn't see the Fed selling agency mortgage-backed securities as part of the process of normalizing its balance sheet. Yellen said the FOMC does not intend, over the long run, to hold any more securities than necessary to effectively executive its policy goals, and any remaining holdings will likely be Treasury securities.  The first question Yellen fielded was on its forward guidance the use of "considerable time." Yellen said the FOMC decided that this characterization of how long will elapse between the end of QE and its first interest rate hike remained appropriate. Yellen said that overall, there is relatively little change in the FOMC's economic outlook between the June meeting and the latest meeting. Yellen emphasized that there is no "mechanical interpretation" of what the phrase "considerable time" means, and said that when it raises rates will remain data dependent. Yellen's answer, overall, gave few clues as to what "considerable time" really means, and it sounds like it could almost mean anything. Yellen said the changes in economic projections were "modest" but added that it does show that what the Fed does depends on how the data unfolds.  Yellen said that the limited increases in wages that have been across the labor market are a measure of slack, and part of why the Fed says in it statements that it still sees "significant underutilization" of labor market resources.  Yellen said that the Fed doesn't see identifying who is which dot would be useful at this time. Yellen also reiterated that the Summary of Economic Projections are merely what FOMC members see as the most likely scenario, and don't take into account the full range of possibilities, both positive and negative. And because there is a range of possibility in the Fed's projections, Yellen pushed back against the idea that there is a big difference between the FOMC and the market's expectations for future interest rates. With regard to when the Fed would stop reinvesting assets on its balance sheet, Yellen she wants to make sure that interest rate normalization is "successfully underway."  Yellen said that it could take until the end of the decade for the Fed's balance sheet to get to levels consistent with normal monetary policy.  On the labor force participation rate, Yellen said that there is a "meaningful cyclical shortfall" in labor force participation. Yellen emphasized that this is her personal view and not the view of the FOMC. Yellen said that over time, we should expect to see labor force participation declining.  Regarding the dissent on the Fed's policy announcement from Charles Plosser and Richard Fisher, Yellen said this isn't a surprising or abnormal level of dissent on the FOMC.  With respect to inflation expectations in Europe, Yellen said that low inflation and the falling expectations are among the risks to the global economy.  On forward guidance, Yellen said the FOMC is "constantly discussing" it and said the FOMC wants to maintain the flexibility to respond to unfolding developments. Yellen said the FOMC wants to emphasize "data dependence" of its policy but does not want to be locked into a calendar-based forward guidance outlook. Yellen said that there is no "mechanical" interpretation of the Fed's forward guidance.  Yellen's press conference follows the latest monetary policy decision from the Fed, which saw the Fed keep interest rates unchanged and take another $10 billion off its quantitative easing program.  Yellen said the Fed isn't behind the curve in failing to return the federal funds rate in the face of a growing economy, but that headwinds including an "abnormally tight" mortgage market, the economy needs low interest rates to return to normal growth in 2016.  On Scotland, Yellen opted not to weigh in.  The Fed also released its latest Summary of Economic Projections, which included the Fed's latest dot plot. The latest plot was a little more hawkish than in June, as the average for the end of next year increased to 1.27% from 1.2%.  The Fed also kept the phrase "considerable time" when describing how long it expects to keep interest rates near zero after the conclusion of its QE program. Additionally, the Fed released details on how it plans to exit its QE program.  FREE AppDownload
