A few months ago, while analyzing a company, I asked an executive of a Fortune 500 company what his company’s cost of capital was. The answer I got was, “Well, the beta of our stock is 0.6, and our cost of debt is 3.25 percent, so the cost of capital is 6.35 percent.” Warren Buffett was asked about Berkshire Hathaway’s cost of capital at his recent annual meeting. The Berkshire CEO’s answer was vague — “It is what can be produced by our second-best idea” — but it was right. I am often asked by students if I recommend studying for the Chartered Financial Analyst designation. In the past I always responded with an unequivocal yes. There were many reasons for that: The CFA charter is like getting a master’s degree in finance and investing at a fraction of the cost, and it is valued just as much. Employers like it because it is standardized, and they know what you had to learn. The CFA covers a lot of material, from ethics to financial derivatives. Lately, however, I have found myself qualifying my yes answer. If you are looking to do the CFA for self-education, I wouldn’t bother. The reason for that is simple: The CFA curriculum spends too much time on Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT). That is the nonsensical set of formulas used by the Fortune 500 executive to compute his company’s cost of capital. (I have to qualify this: I finished my CFA in 2000. Maybe the CFA curriculum has changed since then.) I’ve been in the investment industry for almost 20 years. I have had thousands of conversations with other investors about stocks, but I have yet to have one conversation in which beta or Modern Portfolio Theory was mentioned as part of the analytical framework — not even once. You hear MPT and beta in the same sentence with other words such as “useless,” “theoretical” and “garbage.” If you were to ask what the beta of any company in my portfolio is, I would have no answer for you; I have simply never looked. But ask me about the return on capital or debt of any stock in the portfolio, and I’ll be right in the ballpark. MPT — a Noble Prize–winning theory — has lots of flaws. Beta, a mostly random number, is sitting right in the middle of the calculation of MPT... This article originally appeared at Institutional Investor.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
