If you have been unemployed for some time, you may begin to wonder what is holding you back from finally getting work. Did you know that your credit history could be a reason why you haven’t been able to land a job? In today’s world employers go so far as to check your credit history to determine if you are a good fit for the job. While for the most part, potential employers won’t check your credit history, this still happens to some prospective employees. The reason for this inquiry is because employers use your credit history as another point of reference when determining your reliability, as well as your ability to follow through with promises. This may seem unfair, especially since there are a lot of honest and hard-working people with every intention of paying their bills on time, but it happens. What you need to be concerned about is what kind of jobs require good credit scores, and what you can do to prevent poor credit from hurting your chances of getting a job. Jobs in the financial world are primarily the ones that require good credit. If you’re going to help manage finances for an employer then you need to set a good example with yourself first. A company does not want someone who cannot manage his or her own finances to manage their assets, or assets of their clients. You want your credit to be in good standing before you apply to a position in this field. If you do happen to have bad credit then all hope is not lost to land a job in the financial world. An employer may like your resume, and still call you in for an interview. On some occasions employers in finance will bring up the subject of your bad credit; this is your chance to explain yourself. Give a brief explanation of the reason why your credit history is not the most promising, and the efforts you’re making to change that. No matter how the discussion develops, make sure you end it on a positive note to show you are trying to move in the right direction. While for the most part the only type of job where an employer will deny you a position based on your credit history is in finance, this possibility can occur with essentially any job. This commonly happens when an employer likes two candidates equally, and wants another source of information to make the final decision. If one potential employee has a bad credit history, and the other candidate is in good standing, then the employer is likely to opt for the person with better credit. Having bad credit does not have to prevent you from landing a job. If you have a bad credit history then try your best to have the latest six months of your credit history in good standing. You want to show employers that you have recently made efforts to improve yourself. Paying your bills on time may be hard for you to do if you have no source of income. You may have to settle for a part-time position to help pay the bills so that you do not miss any payments. There are some sacrifices that may be necessary to make, but in the long-run it will be well worth it. Find a way to improve your credit, and it won’t hold you back from getting a job you actually want. This article originally appeared at MyBankTracker.  Copyright 2014. Follow MyBankTracker on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
