REUTERS/Susana VeraA worker adjusts her gloves as she learns to put on her protective suit during an Ebola training session held by Spain's Red Cross in Madrid on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Thursday. 1. The World Health Organization issued promising news about the state of Ebola, noting that the epidemic in Liberia may be slowing down. 2. A mudslide set off by monsoon rains may have killed in hundreds in Sri Lanka. 3. NATO said on Wednesday afternoon that it had intercepted an unusually high number of Russian bomber planes over the Atlantic, Black Sea, and Baltic Sea over a 24-hour period since Tuesday. 4. OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla Salem el-Badri said he expected a sharp fall in US shale output if oil prices stayed low.  5. It could take months for investigators to determine what caused a rocket built by Orbital Sciences and carrying a cargo ship bound for the International Space Station to blow up seconds after launch, obliterating an estimated $200 million in an instant.  REUTERS/StringerRescue teams from the Sri Lankan military engage in rescue operation work at the site of a landslide at the Koslanda tea plantation in Badulla on Wednesday. 6. Fiat Chrysler plans to spin off Ferrari, its most valuable brand.  7. Samsung posted a 49% drop in profit to its lowest total in three years as the electronics maker loses its grip on the smartphone market.  8. Former US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan believes that the third installment of the government's stimulus program, known as QE3, did not meet its goals, which he revealed after the Fed announced the program's end on Wednesday. 9. US government officials have openly criticized Secretary of State John Kerry, comparing him to a lost astronaut in space because he often gets "out of sync with the White House in his public statements." 10. The San Francisco Giants won the World Series Wednesday night, beating the Kansas City Royals, 3-2, in Game 7. And finally ... Behold: A prototype of the world's most advanced flying car.  FREE AppDownload
