RT Ousted Ukrainian Viktor Yanukovych spoke to the press from the southern Russian port city of Rostov-on-Don, where he is under Kremlin protection. A lot happened in the hours preceding his appearance (summary below). Yanukovych called for a reorganization of the government, new presidential elections, and a new constitution. His highlighted the truce signed on February 19, which would have kept him in power and was subsequently rejected by protesters. After a day of bloodshed, Yanukovych fled and parliament stripped him of his position. A new government was approved yesterday, but neither Yanukovych nor Russia recognize it. "I believe that the Ukrainian parliament is not legitimate," he said.  He argued that the people who forced him out of the country are "radical mobsters," and that the turmoil would have calmed down if the February 19 truce was implemented. "I didn't flee anywhere," Yanukovych said, adding that he was on his way to meet with activists in the eastern city of Kharkov when his car came under attack. "Radical groups started arriving in Kharkov. It was not about fear. I didn't have any fear. I needed to comply with the safety conditions." He says he then went to Crimea, and he described threats to his family. "The intentions that I had were ruined by the new threats." He advocated the forming of militia units in Crimea. He said that he will not ask for military assistance from Russia. He did not mention the apparent Russian takeover of legislative buildings and airports. "I know that Crimeans hear me," he said. "I will return to Ukraine once my conditions of my security and the security of my family [are] assured." Speaking about the economic situation in Ukraine, he said that Russia is an important partner and now the new government is responsible for the "full-blown disaster." He later described the close economic relations between Ukraine and Russia, bashing the EU. "They are to blame: All those who came to power today," he says, adding that there were invisible forces at work in Kiev. "The U.S., who connived with [protesters] in Maidan, bears the full responsibility for the Ukrainian people." He said he will not take part in May presidential election in Ukraine. "I have facts to prove [that I am still the president]. The laws that were passed through force by parliament will not be accepted by me. I did not sign them, so the laws [do not] come into effect." More than 80 people died in clashes that led to Yanukovych's ouster, but he says that he did give orders to shoot protesters. "I never gave any orders to police to open fire," Yanukovych stated, adding that police began firing when they were fired upon. "I prevented bloodshed." Here's what he said about Russia's involvement: "Russia needs to use all of the leverage it has to prevent, the terror, that is unfolding in Ukraine." He added that he does not condone splitting up the country. Speaking about his lavish compound, he said: "I paid $3.2 million for that house." He then said that he does not have any offshore accounts. He ended by saying: "Think twice before you make the next move," addressing the new government. "We can now see the end is near. The Ukrainian nation will never live with that." Russia has not acknowledged the new government in Kiev, besides the foreign ministry spokesman saying that "a 'government of winners' which includes representatives of the extreme nationalists is being created." Here's what else is happening today: FREE AppDownload
