Wikimedia CommonsIsland Neuwerk near Hamburg in the German Wadden Sea.This week, we'll get some February economic reports that should give us a sense of how we've done in the wake of the unusually harsh winter. We'll also get an early read on consumer and business sentiment in March as tensions in Eastern Europe waned. Still, we continue to experience sluggish growth in what Mohamed El-Erian has dubbed "the New Normal." However, El-Erian thinks the likelihood of things getting better (or worse) has increased. "Over the short-term, the economic baseline calls essentially for more of the same, along with fatter two-sided tails for the distribution as a whole," he wrote in a new post for Business Insider. "Specifically, absent major policy mistakes or geo-political/market accidents, western growth will gradually improve in 2014, but unfortunately still fall short of escape velocity. Over the medium-term, however, the probability of tipping into one of the two tails is likely to increase: so either the west reaches a critical point of internal healing that enables growth at or above potential for a while; or now-deeply embedded structural problems contribute to more prolonged low growth with significantly higher probability of financial volatility." Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Last week, S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices published their latest scorecard of S&amp;P indices versus active funds. It confirmed that over the long-run, most active investment managers across all categories fail to deliver returns that beat the market. Fund manager Clifford Asness recently made an interesting observation about the fund management industry. ... In fact, in our years of managing money, it seems like whenever we have found instances of individuals or firms that seem to have something so special (you never really know for sure, of course), the more certain we are that they are on to something, the more likely it is that either they are not taking money or they take out so much in either compensation or fees that investors are left with what seems like a pretty normal expected rate of return... Simply put, fund managers who are truly convinced they can beat the market aren't that interested in sharing those returns with you. It's something to think about, especially in this era of exorbitant fund management fees. FREE AppDownload
