Architectural DigestSanford I. Weill and his wife, Joan, are über New Yorkers. Known as Sandy, he is the former head of Citigroup and the longtime chairman of Carnegie Hall. She chairs Manhattan’s Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. Then there is the city’s Weill Cornell Medical College, to which they have donated many millions of dollars. That being said, the Brooklyn-born philanthropists have succumbed to Northern California’s allure and put down roots in Sonoma Valley. Situated on some 360 rolling acres that include a vineyard—the 2012 Weill a Way red received a 94 on Robert Parker’s 100-point index of excellence—the Weills’ compound is at the end of a vertiginous drive that meanders through fields of sprightly California poppies and live oaks. "We visited in August, four years ago, and the gardeners handed me a plum and a white peach," Joan recalls of their first encounter with the property. "Then the brokers brought us back one night and lit an outdoor fire. That clinched the deal." A year later the couple put their Central Park West penthouse on the market and started packing. Architectural DigestConceived in the 1990s by Walker &amp; Moody Architects, the firm that masterminded the Auberge du Soleil resort in nearby Rutherford, the Sonoma estate suggests an ancestral enclave in Tuscany. Italian terra-cotta tiles sheathe the higgledy-piggledy roofline of the two-bedroom main residence. A covered breezeway connects that building to a four-bedroom guesthouse—equipped with an indoor pool and a wine library—added by the Weills. There’s also a walled garden overflowing with old-fashioned roses, courtesy of the landscape architect Mai K. Arbegast, who devised the verdant grounds for the property’s previous owners. Architectural DigestTo update the interiors, the Weills relied on designer Mica Ertegun, who began working with them on various homes eight years ago. "We were a little intimated by her back then," Sandy says. "Her reputation is so big." Today she is the Weills’ aesthetic alter ego, her portfolio including the couple’s former New York apartment and their villa in the Bahamas. Not only does the decorator share "very similar tastes," with her clients, she describes them admiringly as people who "appreciate that every corner of a home needs to be looked at." Architectural DigestTaking pride of place in the Sonoma main house’s sun-splashed entrance gallery is a 1940s Fernand Léger mosaic whose brilliant blues, yellows, oranges, greens, and reds dance against a light-ocher wall. To accommodate two of the couple’s Thomas Hart Benton paintings, the living room’s carved overmantel was removed, one of several architectural adjustments that Ertegun and John Schaberg, a senior project director at her firm, MAC II, made to the dwelling and its outbuildings. "I’m not a collector," Sandy says modestly. "But I know what I like." And what he likes encompasses everything from the languorous fashion illustration that hangs in the soothingly neutral master bedroom to the giant outdoor sculptures of pink and red roses by Will Ryman. (The overscale blooms were part of a public-art commission installed along ten blocks of Park Avenue in 2011.) When the Weills shop for art, Joan says they both have "the right of refusal"—though, her husband laughingly admits, in the case of the Léger, she lost. Tom Brady &amp; Gisele Bündchen's Custom Château Ralph Lauren Shows off His Many Homes Sandy Weill's Wine Country Estate The World's Most Radical Houses This article originally appeared at Architectural Digest.  Copyright 2014. Follow Architectural Digest on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
