So, having recently covered Tips for Surviving a Goldman Sachs Internship and Attending a Sporting Event With Your Boss, my latest attempt (by request) is a fresh, succinct, and definitive guide to dressing like an investment banker. The genesis of this post is simple; American men dress like s---.   It doesn’t matter where you look, from the endless stream of bright-eyed but hopeless-looking students vying for the ever-shrinking number of analyst positions on Wall Street, to the haggard, white-collar, middle class masses traipsing their way from airport lounge to departure gate, while getting Hilton Reward Points rich and Chipotle fat. Who better to help than the aggregated and infinite wisdom of GSElevator, with a comprehensive list of business fashion tips from the halls of Goldman Sachs? So, here we go… Shoes #1: He's really wearing square-toed shoes... #2: Wait, it's intern season already? WATCH: The Strange Fashion Choices Of European MenSocks  #1: Most Brits aren't gay, but their socks are. #1: I wear a brand new pair of socks every day. That's probably my only indulgence. That, and watches... And wine. Pants/Trousers No cuffs and no pleats; pleats are for guys with gunts (front asses).   #1: Dude, cuffed pants are for limo drivers. Belt loops are optional.  If you have a decent tailor, rock the side tabs.  #1: Did you forget your belt today? #2: I don't need one; did you forget to get your suit tailored? Actually, side tabs are rather convenient if you are a junior banker. You’ve got less time for the gym and spend many a lunch and dinner hunched over your desk.  Throw in the boozy nights out and extravagant client dinners and it’s a recipe for looking like 2011 Alec Baldwin. Belts/Suspenders Shirts WATCH: How To Tie A Windsor KnotTies It’s all about the Windsor knot, with the perfectly symmetrical triangle.  A half or full Windsor are both fine, depending on the thickness of the tie and the spread of the collar. MD#1: Handshakes and tie knots. I don't have time for someone that can't master those basic skills. #1: Don't show up to an interview in a Hermès tie. I don't give a f*ck if you can afford it, you have to earn it. #1: Hermes ties are like Air Jordans for white people. Everyone has a favorite tie, but don’t wear it every damn week. #1: There's nothing pretentious about keeping a tie journal. It keeps me on a solid 10-12 week rotation. WATCH: How To Pack A SuitSuit Jacket #1: Is that a brown suit? The back office is in Jersey City, pal. #1: Gucci suits are like Corvettes. They're a great way of telling people you didn't always have money. #1: I spent $2,000 on a suit I don't need or like, just to impress a sales chick I don't find attractive. Business Casual  #1: Why do people wear wool if they know cashmere exists?  #1: There is no such thing as turtleneck weather. Stick with Polo shirts; no one cares to watch you inevitably mime golf swings. #1: Nothing says douchebag quite like wearing an Augusta golf shirt when the Masters are on. Watches #1: Wearing a Rolex is like driving an Audi. It says you've got some money, but nothing to say. Thanks to Hank Paulson, Nike running watches and Livestrong bracelets were to 2004 what Lloyd's stubble beard has been to 2012-13.  There are quite a few senior guys that still wear a Nike sport watch, intentionally, or even no watch at all. #1: Not wearing a watch is the new Patek. Forget all about Hublot.  It’s a great way to tell people that you’re an idiot who has more money than taste.  Hublot was a second-rate brand with third-rate craftsmanship until about 15 years ago when they arbitrarily doubled the price and started paying celebrities and sport figures to wear them. It's been a marketers wet dream.  #1: Hublot put the ‘whore’ in ‘horology’  Miscellaneous Tips #1: In New York, don't trust a banker with a pocket square. In London, it's a pinky ring. And in Asia, don't f--king trust anyone. Like Ambien and red wine, the wrong fashion combination can become a disastrously lethal cocktail of Larry Kudlow-esque proportions.  MD #1: A double-breasted suit and a blue shirt with a white collar? Was it a rough night in the water bed? #1: Plaid shirt, bow tie, and pocket square is the douchebag trifecta.  Finally, "an architect is only as good as his builder, and a fashion designer is only as good as your tailor." There you have it; head to toe. These tips won’t exactly get you laid at Soho House or on the cover of GQ; but on Wall Street and in business, you can’t go wrong taking this advice. Just don’t go out and break the law or get scapegoated… Ask any juror, Fabrice Tourre’s ‘fabulous’(?) and expensive-looking fashion sense was a coffin nail come deliberation time. FREE AppDownload
