USFunds2011 via FlickrPart of the trans-Siberian routeA trans-Siberian train ride highlighted how China is racing ahead compared with Russia's slower progress I have just returned from a mega train trip, starting in Moscow, following the route of the Trans-Siberian railway, and then branching off to Mongolia, ending up in Beijing. As well as enjoying the extraordinary scenery, I found myself reflecting on essential matters of economics. I had first set foot in Moscow 40 years ago, and in Beijing 30 years ago. My mind was full of comparisons and conjectures. When I visited Moscow in 1974 this was in the midst of the Brezhnev era and at the height of the Cold War. The city was grim in the extreme. I stayed in a ghastly Soviet hotel. You felt as though you were being followed by the KGB (and you probably were). Where you were able to shop depended upon who you were: foreigner, communist party hack, or mere mortal. Not that there was much to spend your money on anyway. The only thing worth taking home were the fur hats, one of which I still have today. In those days the sugar did not dissolve in your coffee. You had to repeatedly bash the cube with a spoon to get it to break up. I also have one of those Soviet sugar cubes today, still undissolved after all those years. I next visited some 15 years later, as the Soviet Union was about to do what the sugar couldn’t. My hotel was another Soviet disaster zone, where the top floor was given over to spies and their listening equipment. I well remember visiting the hotel restaurant with my friend, the journalist William Keegan, to find ourselves kept at bay by a sign in the window announcing that the restaurant was closed for lunch – closed to customers that is, so that the staff could have lunch. Today Moscow is a radically different city – brash, traffic-clogged, sophisticated and dedicated to conspicuous consumption: smart girls, smart cars and smart restaurants, all at eye-watering prices. Amusingly, I thought there was something very familiar about the extremely luxurious hotel I was staying at. And then I realised: it was in the same position as the hotel I had stayed at before, since completely remodelled. But there wasn’t a KGB man to be seen; the top floor was now a swish bar. With Moscow coming across as the quintessence of capitalism unbridled, I was unprepared for the cities of Siberia. Here the Soviet era seemed to be alive and well, complete with tour guides straight out of central casting: “On the right you see car park number three. It measures 330 metres by 84 metres and can take a maximum of 330 cars. It replaced car park number two in 1984.” After 20 minutes of this stuff you start to lose the will to live. In one Siberian town we were taken to see its claim to fame – the world’s largest bust of Lenin, still glaring out across a windswept, decrepit central square - lucky us. Interestingly, we saw no statues of Stalin anywhere – except in Mongolia, where tradesmen were selling a trio of busts of what they construed as notable world leaders: the inevitable Genghis Khan, Stalin and Hitler. One favourable legacy from the Stalin era in Russia is the apartment blocks built during his reign and still referred to as Stalin flats, which are much sought after today. They looked to be well built, elegant in style and evidently spacious within – in contrast to the so-called Khrushchev flats which looked ghastly. Was this an instance of falling building standards everywhere, I asked myself. Or did it reflect something specifically Soviet? Whatever the answer, there are clearly large parts of the country that have been little touched by the prosperity that is evident in Moscow. The need to spend money on infrastructure and residential construction is simply immense. As we left Siberia, I mused on the economic significance of space. In the UK we are used to the idea that the lack of space is a major economic drawback. But an abundance of space can be a problem too. It creates significant communication and transport problems and it also makes it difficult to enjoy the benefits of agglomeration, including economies of scale and specialisation. Despite its vast array of natural wealth, over and above its extreme climate, Siberia suffers from huge disadvantages because of its size. In some ways, arriving in China left me with the opposite impressions. After I returned from my first trip to Beijing 30 years ago, I wrote in this very newspaper that two things struck me forcibly about the city – cabbages and bicycles: cabbages piled 10ft high on the pavements of the streets and bicycles in swarms, ridden by anonymous characters in grey or brown Mao suits. Thirty years on there wasn’t a single cabbage or Mao suit to be seen – although Mao himself is still venerated. There were a few bicycles but far more motor scooters and hugely impressive, city blocking, volumes of traffic. As well as the bustle of the city I was impressed by the quality of the building and the apparent prosperity of the people. Given that on average, China is still a poor country, there must be oodles of severe rural poverty to offset the prosperity visible in Beijing and many other cities. Interestingly, China is not a country blessed with endowments of natural resources; despite its vast size it does not even have a massive surplus of land. For large parts of the country are largely uninhabited desert. In those parts of the country that are inhabited, the population density is high. Interestingly, China’s surge in GDP and living standards of the past 30 years has been intimately bound up with urbanisation. I was as conscious of the state on this visit as I had been 30 years ago: lots of uniformed people on the streets: soldiers, police, and officers of all kinds. When entering the country, for heaven knows what reason, there were uniformed border officers taking photographs of people as they waited to go through the immigration procedures. It is difficult not to be bowled over by what China has achieved - especially when contrasted with Russia. Average Russian living standards are still higher than China’s. But whereas Russia’s have doubled since the early 1990s, China’s have increased 10-fold. As I left the country, I found myself wondering whether this has been despite the continuation of communist dictatorship or because of it. Roger Bootle is managing director of Capital Economics. His latest book, The Trouble with Europe, has just been published by Nicholas Brealey Publishing. roger.bootle@capitaleconomics.com FREE AppDownload
