Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesBillionaire business magnate and philanthropist George Soros — who has long bankrolled drug policy reform and harm reduction causes — has published an op-ed in today’s Financial Times. It’s in support of a new report from the London School of Economics, which is signed by five winners of the Nobel Prize for economics and calls for an end the international War on Drugs. Soros describes the report as “the most thorough account of the war on drugs” to date. Authored by some of the world’s top economists, it outlines the far-reaching damages wrought by international counter-narcotics efforts, and recommends that governments give top priority to evidence-based drug policies, moving away from prohibition and towards harm reduction. With this message, Soros writes: “I heartily concur.” “For more than four decades, governments around the world have pumped huge sums of money into ineffective and repressive anti-drug efforts,” he continues. “These have come at the expense of programs that actually work such as needle exchanges and substitution therapy. This is not just a waste of money, it is counterproductive.” Soros is the founder of Open Society Foundations, which has done extensive work in promoting harm reduction programs. “For too long the UN has worked to enforce a ‘one-size-fits-all' model around the world, based on a belief that prohibitionist policies alone would solve the global drug problem,” writes Soros. One reason it has failed, he explains, is because of the “highly adaptive” nature of drug markets: “Repress the business in one country and it springs up elsewhere.” As an example, he points to Colombia, where attempts to crack down on the cocaine trade simply pushed it towards Mexico (leading to a 20% rise in the Mexican murder rate). People in the US have borne the impact of the drug war, too: 25% of the world’s prisoners are in US jails, even though we make up only 5% of the global population. Worldwide, 40% of the 9 million people in prison are incarcerated for drug-related offenses. But Soros believes “change is still possible” and hopes the new LSE report could herald a new direction in global drug policy. He writes: “We have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to fix a broken global framework for coping with the drug crisis. The costs of doing nothing are too great to bear.” FREE AppDownload
