REUTERS/Carlo AllegriThe U.S. is closed Monday for the Memorial Day holiday. That'll give us an extra day to read up on all of the hot debates in the economy and the markets. Market-watchers will continue to obsess over low volatility and high profit margins, both topics we will discuss shortly. Economists, on the other hand, will focus on housing data this week. Friday's new-home sales report was very encouraging. Societe Generale's Kit Juckes expects more good news will keep coming.  "These data will help ease some of the concerns expressed by Fed Chair Yellen before Congress on 7 May that “readings on housing activity - a sector that has been in recovery since 2011 - have remained disappointing so far this year and will bear watching”," noted Juckes. "These concerns were also expressed in the 29-30 April FOMC minutes." Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Folks like Deutsche Bank's David Bianco have argued that profit margins have made a structural move higher. Meanwhile, bears like GMO's James Montier and John Hussman have argued that margins are doomed to revert to a mean. In an unexpected twist, the profit margin bulls are now saying we've been missing the point. Rather than quibbling over profits as a percent of sales, we should be considering profits relative to capital (e.g. return on equity, return on assets). After all, this is the primary metric a business considers before making an investment. "Profits of GDP and net margins are incomplete profit metrics," said Bianco in a research note on Friday. "Profits should be measured relative to capital employed and both NIPA based ROA and S&amp;P financial statement based ROE measures are consistent with history."" Jesse Livermore, the pseudonymous author of the brilliant Philosophical Economics blog, explains in a post on Sunday. The mistake we’re making here is to assume that corporations “compete” for profit margins.  They don’t.  Profit margins have no value at all.  What has value is a return. The decision to expand into the market of a competitor and seek additional return is not a decision driven by the expected profit margin, the expected return relative to the anticipated quantity of sales.  Rather, it’s a decision driven instead by the expected ROE, the expected return relative to the amount of capital that will have to be invested, put at risk, in order to earn it. Suppose that you run a business.  There is another business across town similar to your own whose market you could penetrate into.  If operations in that market would come at a high profit margin, but a low return on equity–i.e., a low return relative to the amount of capital you would have to invest in order to expand into it–would the venture be worth it? It obviously wouldn’t be worth it, regardless of how high the profit margin happened to be. Conversely, suppose that the return on equity–the return on the amount of capital that you would have to invest in order to expand into the new market–would be high, but the profit margin would be low.  Would the venture be worth it?  Absolutely.  The profit margin would be irrelevant–you wouldn’t care whether it was high or low.  What would attract you is the high ROE, the fact that your return would be large relative to the amount of capital you would have to deploy, put at risk, in order to earn it. This is not to say that the return on capital metrics are high. They're just not as out of whack as the profit margins we usually hear about. "Domestic corporations clearly aren’t generating as much profit on their invested capital as a superficial glance at the profit margin would suggest, which sheds doubt on the claim that 'competitive arbitrage' is going to dramatically drive down profitability in the coming years," said Livermore. Philosophical Economics For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
