USDA.govWeather Exhaustion The pace of economic growth is one of the primary drivers of bond yields, and a number of weaker-than-expected economic data points have helped support high-quality bond prices in 2014. The softer economic data have translated into downward revisions to first quarter economic growth forecasts after an acceleration over the second half of 2013. The harsh weather experienced in much of the country this winter is frequently cited as negatively impacting economic reports. Winter weather’s impact has been evident across a variety of economic data releases over January and February [Figure 1]. Figure 1: Poor Weather Was Cited as a Negative Factor Across Multiple Economic Reports LPL Financial Source: BLS, Commerce Department, Federal Reserve, NAR, Bloomberg, LPL Financial Research 2/24/14 The adverse impact of weather has been cited as one factor by many Federal Reserve (Fed) officials and most recently by Chair Yellen in comments to Congress. Additionally, a number of corporations including Ford, General Motors, Walmart, Ingersoll Rand, and CSX Corp. cited weather impacts in recent earnings reports. To be sure, a few economic reports were mixed independent of the impact of weather, including the January employment report (released in early February 2014), not shown in Figure 1. Conversely, details of other reports point to underlying strength. In any case, the uncertainty has helped keep high-quality bond yields relatively stable so far in 2014. Yielding to WeatherThe impact of weather and subsequent weaker-than-expected economic data is reflected in the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index. A rising line indicates more economic reports are surprising to the upside, reflecting greater strength, while a declining line represents softer data and possibly weaker underlying growth. Since the economy is a primary driver of bond yields, the close correlation between the pace of the economy and Treasury yields is, pun intended, no surprise [Figure 2]. Figure 2: Treasury Yields Have Begun to Ignore Weather-Impacted Data Releases  LPL Finanicial Source: Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, Bloomberg, LPL Financial Research 2/24/14 However, note the recent divergence between the Economic Surprise Index and the 10-year Treasury yield. Bond markets are forward looking and the recent rise in yields signals weather exhaustion: the bond market is looking forward to spring, when a clearer read of the economic data is available free of weather distortions. Last week, bond yields closed unchanged despite a sharp drop in housing starts and other disappointing data. This signals bond investors are unwilling to push yields much lower given that some economic indicators, most recently the Markit Purchasing Managers’ Index, continue to show underlying strength. Homebuilder company stocks have also exhibited strength, suggesting recent softness in housing data is expected to pass. Yielding to Emerging MarketsWorries over emerging markets (EM) also helped support bond prices. Over the past three months, EM concerns, as measured by credit default swaps (CDS) pricing, have been closely correlated with the path of Treasury yields. A rising CDS price index reflects fewer investors buying insurance to protect against losses, and vice versa. Last week, rising unrest in the Ukraine failed to push Treasury yields lower, even as EM CDS touched prior lows before rebounding late in the week [Figure 3] and through Monday, February 24, 2014. The bond market mat be signaling that EM weakness is unlikely to impact the domestic economy or postpone a reduction in Fed bond purchases. Figure 3: Treasuries May Be Decoupling From EM Risks LPL Finanicial  Source: Bloomberg, LPL Financial Research 4/24/14 Yielding to the FedThe Fed, along with the economy, is another key driver of bond yields and may best explain why Treasury yields have been unable to fall meaningfully lower. The release of the January 28–29, 2014 Fed meeting minutes revealed that Fed officials viewed weakness in recent economic data as weather-related and also did not expect EM weakness to impact the domestic economy or financial markets. Bond investors were left facing a Fed that remains intent on reducing bond purchases and ultimately raising interest rates in 2015. The Fed’s message appears to slightly contradict bond market expectations that the Fed will wait longer to raise interest rates [Figure 4]. Although still a long way off, bond market pricing is expensive and very far away from valuations that are typically prevalent at the start of rate hikes. Figure 4: The Bond Market Is Not Correctly Priced for a Less-Friendly Fed   LPL Finanicial Source: CBOT, Federal Reserve, LPL Financial Research 2/24/14 ConclusionWinter storm Pax in February is also likely to have had a negative impact on the economy that will potentially be reflected in the release of February economic reports from now through mid-March. The clouds surrounding economic data are unlikely to lift until clearer, less weather-distorted data become available in early April, as March economic reports are released. In the meantime, yields may remain range bound as defined by a 2.5% to 3.0% 10-year Treasury yield. However, we continue to see signs of underlying strength that we believe will ultimately work to push yields gradually upward once again. In addition, the Fed remains focused on its slow journey to an eventual interest rate hike and bond yields should rise to “price in” that eventuality. Should economic data prove softness is more than just weather-related, bond prices and yields may remain in the current range for longer. If the Fed signals a more gradual approach to reducing bond purchases and a delay in the timing of an eventual rate hike, a similar outcome would be likely. Absent that however, we still advocate a defensive posture in bond portfolios, with an emphasis on more credit sensitive sectors such as high-yield bonds and bank loans, and use year-to-date strength as a selling opportunity in high-quality bonds. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
