StPetersburgBowlBitPay, the Atlanta-based Bitcoin payments processor, has signed a deal with a unit of ESPN to sponsor the NCAA football playoff game most recently known as the Beef O'Brady's Bowl. It will be called the Bitcoin St. Petersburg Bowl. The deal starts this year and will run through 2016.  Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but CNBC reported in 2012 that the Beef O'Brady's restaurant chain paid $400,000 a year for four years to have their name on the bowl. Here's the full release from BitPay: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (June 18, 2014) – ESPN Events,  a subsidiary of ESPN, has announced BitPay, the world’s leader in business solutions for the bitcoin digital currency, as the new title sponsor for the annual college football postseason game played in St. Petersburg (Fla.).   Beginning with this year’s December 26 game, the bowl will now be known as the Bitcoin St. Petersburg Bowl.  BitPay will serve as title sponsor for three years through the 2016 game.  "Our goal is to continue to move bitcoin into the mainstream and sponsoring the St. Petersburg Bowl offers us that opportunity," said Tony Gallippi, Executive Chairman for BitPay. "College football fans and the bitcoin community represent a similar target demographic - tech-savvy men between the ages of 18 and 40." By sponsoring the bowl game, BitPay is not only hoping to stimulate the bitcoin community around the event, but also to further promote interest in the digital currency on a national scale. The bowl game will be an exciting opportunity to enable fans to use bitcoin in a fun, collegiate sports environment.  With a rapport of over 33,000 merchants and growing, BitPay has led the bitcoin economy by allowing businesses around the world to easily accept bitcoin.   The attention brought to bitcoin by the game will only further boost its ascension into the mainstream.  "We’re extremely excited to welcome BitPay to college football and our bowl home in St. Petersburg," said Brett Dulaney, Executive Director of the Bitcoin St. Petersburg Bowl. "We look forward to a long and mutually beneficial arrangement." The 2014 game will be played on Friday, Dec. 26, at 8 p.m. ET at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg. The game, which will once again air on ESPN, is in its first-year of its new conference affiliation with the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) and the American Athletic Conference.  Tickets for the 2014 Bitcoin St. Petersburg Bowl will go on sale later this year with prices starting as low as just $40. Tickets will be available through Ticketmaster or by phone at 1-800-745-3000.  Tickets and merchandise will also be available to purchase with bitcoin. FREE AppDownload
