REUTERS/Tim ShafferJack BogleBloomberg's Tom Keene just wrapped up an interview with AQR's Cliff Asness and Vanguard's Jack Bogle at the Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit.  Among the topics discussed were the health of pension funds, the benefits of active and passive investing, and whether ETFs are being used for their best purposes. On pensions, Jack Bogle said, "Let's start with the facts: public pensions are $4 trillion underfunded and private pensions are $800-$900 billion short." Bogle said that pensions are not going to get the 8% return they assume they are going to get, but 5% is a more reasonable assumption. And this 5% also excludes fees. Asness is also just as "gloomy" as Bogle on the future of pension funds. Asness on if we can make up the gap in pension plans: "We almost definitely don't get there." On bond rates, Keene asked if the 7% yield that investors got over the last couple decades are a thing of the past, and Bogle said, "They have to be a thing of the past." Asness said he doesn't make GDP forecasts, but because Keene asked, he said, "If I had to guess, because you're forcing me to, I'd guess 1.5% real, 4% nominal." So, a bit lower than history might suggest. Asness added that making macro forecasts is a tough way to make a living. Bogle said that his worst call writing in 1990 that investors could expect returns of 10% over the decade; investors got 17% in 1990s. But since many of those returns were given up after the tech bubble burst, the 10% return call came to fruition over a 13-year period.  The argument for passive management, Bogle said, has "always been true... it's a tautology."  On whether the costs of active management are worth it, Asness said, "As Jack said, his math has never been wrong and never will be wrong." Asness said, however, that he sees the financial sector as too large, and since there are too many people trying to beat the average, market prices are better, and there is still a place for the active investor who thinks they can beat the market Bogle said that he expects more and more money to go into the passive, indexing side of the financial industry as passive investing continues to outperform actively managed funds. On ETFs, Bogle said that they are now vehicles that are used largely to be traded. "Now you can trade the S&amp;P 500 index all-day long, to which I say, 'What idiot would want to do that?'" Bogle said. Asness said ETFs are a "potentially great structure being used for some dangerous purposes." And on the future of security analysis and investing in our modern markets, Bogle said the future of security analysis remains solid as long as the return of all investors continues to equal the return of the market.  Bogle concluded with a statement from Ben Graham, recently quoted by Warren Buffett, that said, "I have now become an indexer myself." FREE AppDownload
