Flickr/Jaguar MENAThe more the rich spend on services, the more money that stays in the local economy.Henry Blodget, editor of Business Insider, believes that businesses are greedier than ever and that greed is hurting economic growth. Luckily for all of us, both propositions are untrue. Businesses are just exactly as greedy as they have always been and inequality is either irrelevant to aggregate economic growth or actually helps it. Here are the facts. Yes, businesses are in business to make money and profits have been healthy the last few years. That is partly the result of tax credits businesses have carried forward from losses during the recent recession and partly due to more efficient operations. If businesses successfully manage to make more money, that is a plus for the economy. It is called wealth creation and has traditionally been considered a good thing. After all, businesses that do not make money do not stay in business. Further, while corporate profits may have risen as a percent of GDP, they have fallen when measured as a percent of the capital stock. In other words, it is taking businesses more dollars worth of investment to earn each new dollar of profit than it used to. That seems much less exploitive than looking at it the other way. Mr. Blodget seems to think that if businesses diverted some of those profits into higher wages, people (workers) would have more money to spend and that spending would boost the economy. However, that is like thinking that moving money from my left pants pocket to the right one makes me richer. Right now, the profits are going to business owners who either spend or save the money. If the profits are used to raise wages, every dollar of new spending power gained by workers is offset by a reduction in spending power for the business owners. Redistributing money cannot make a country wealthier. Mr. Blodget is correct that businesses are not forced to maximize their profits; they could choose to pay workers more or to think long-term. However, such a change does not change total household income since we are just moving money from one pocket to another.  And before anyone says something like: but poor and middle class people spend all their money while rich people save it, that doesn’t matter either. Consumer spending and investment spending both count equally in the gross domestic product. Money that is saved is lent out by the banks and becomes investment (spending) by somebody else. Money does not disappear from the economy when one person saves it.  In fact, since rich people spend more on services while poorer people buy more of the sorts of products that we import from other countries, the average dollar spent by a rich person helps the economy more than the average dollar spent by most of us. When we buy cheap imported clothes, some of the money does actually leave the economy, but when somebody spends the day at a spa getting a facial, massage, and mani-pedi, all that money stays in the local economy. Mr. Blodget shows a graph displaying wages as a falling percent of GDP. The graph shows a distorted picture for two reasons. First, the data do not include benefits (it is wages and salaries, not total compensation cost). Second, labor’s share of GDP has fallen because workers are paired with more capital (so capital’s share is growing). In fact, the 1980s and 1990s, periods of strong economic growth and rising household incomes show the same general pattern of a falling labor share. It doesn’t matter what share of the pie you get, only how big your piece is.  If the pie is growing fast enough (as it did under Presidents Reagan and Clinton), then your piece can get bigger even if it is a smaller percent of the whole. You can see this in the accompanying chart, which shows inflation-adjusted per capita disposable income has risen pretty continually over time. Clearly, people are ending up with a bigger piece of pie. FREDMost business owners are not rich, but regular shareholders with small investment portfolios. Taking money from them to give to workers is really just moving money from some middle class people to other middle class people. However, even if we did manage to redistribute money from rich people to not-rich people, it would not help the economy. Proof of this is that we already redistribute between $2.5 and $3 trillion per year (about $1 trillion in welfare programs and the rest in other programs like Social Security, Medicare, and corporate welfare). I cannot imagine how past experience with such programs suggests that more of it will start producing different results than we have seen so far. The reality is that hourly earnings and total compensation have been rising, not falling; businesses are not gouging people any more than they used to; and redistributing money only moves it around, it doesn’t make us richer in total. The only way to faster economic growth is to become more productive through innovation or increased human capital. Any other idea is just a gimmick or a sham. Jeffrey Dorfman is a professor of economics at The University of Georgia and regular contributor of opinion columns to Forbes.com and RealClearMarkets.com. FREE AppDownload
