Broad bond market strength in 2014 has left fixed income investors with slim pickings for investment opportunities. Low Treasury yields are not the only dilemma facing bond investors. The 2014 rally in corporate bond sectors, emerging market debt, high-yield bonds, and even municipal bonds has been impressive and has led to more expansive valuations. In many cases, Treasury price gains have failed to match the gains in these sectors. Broad-based strength, which has seen the broad Barclays Aggregate Bond Index rise nearly 3% year to date through Monday, May 12, 2014, has led to a dearth of opportunities. The average yield advantage, or spread, of a particular bond sector relative to Treasuries is the easiest way to evaluate a bond sector’s attractiveness. A wide yield spread is indicative of a more attractive valuation while a narrow yield spread indicates a more expensive valuation. Investors are likely aware that low yields and the prospect of future interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve (Fed) make Treasuries unappealing, but the lack of value has spread to other segments of the bond market. LPL Financial Average yield spreads of several fixed income sectors are at the narrowest levels of the past four years [Figure 1]. Investment-grade and high-yield corporate bond yield spreads are at post-recession lows. Preferred security yield spreads are not far off post-recession lows, while emerging market debt (EMD), mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and high-yield municipals are in the bottom half of their respective ranges. MBS spreads narrowed dramatically in late 2012, following the announcement of expanded Fed bond purchases. Absent the 2012 spike lower, MBS spreads, which are at their lowest levels of the year, would be near a post-recession low as well. EMD spreads recently closed at 11-month lows and a full percentage point below the early 2014 peaks. We would argue that both sectors are expensive relative to recent history and contribute to the value dilemma facing bond investors. High-yield municipal valuations appear the least overvalued in the group and have not reached an extreme relative to taxable high-yield bonds. However, the inclusion of Puerto Rico debt, which is now over 20% of the municipal high-yield index, has skewed the average valuation, and yield spreads for the majority of the high-yield municipal bond market are much tighter. Not only are spreads narrow across the bond market but spreads are also compressed within sectors. The extra yield obtained by investing in the least creditworthy segment of the high-yield bond market has contracted considerably. Within the high-yield bond market, the yield differential between BB-rated bonds and bottom tier CCC-rated bonds has shrunk to the narrowest levels of the past 10 years [Figure 2]. Therefore, finding pockets of value is more difficult and investors are compensated less for taking on extra risk. LPL FinancialNarrow yield spreads by themselves do not imply a pending market correction. Spreads can stay narrow for a long time, and the typical credit cycle sees periods of narrow spreads that can last for years [Figure 3]. In the case of high-yield bonds, a low default environment and healthy corporate profitability suggest yield spreads may stay narrow for some time reflecting reduced risk. In the mid-1990s, a period of narrow yield spreads persisted for nearly six years, and in the mid-2000s, narrow yield spreads persisted for over three years. European debt fears led to periods of volatility in the high-yield market in recent years, but we estimate credit quality has been generally stable for two to three years now. LPL FinancialHigher valuations are not limited to the taxable bond market, as municipal bonds have also benefited from a narrower yield disparity with Treasuries [Figure 4]. Municipal bond prices have improved steadily from last year’s pullback and outpaced the gains in intermediate- and longer-term Treasuries, leading to lower municipal-to-Treasury yield ratios. The 10-year ratio in particular is near a three-year low and below the ratio prevalent at the start of May 2013 when the sell-off began. LPL FinancialTreasury yields remain low, but across the bond market yield differentials to Treasuries have narrowed dramatically leaving higher valuations and few opportunities. History suggests yield spreads can remain narrow for some time, but it does not eliminate limited opportunities. Higher valuations are likely to mean lower returns over the remainder of 2014 and beyond. The strength witnessed so far in 2014 is unlikely to be repeated and taking profits on bond market strength seems prudent. Even if bond prices do not weaken, now lower yields may likely translate into much lower returns. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
