Pascal Rossignol/ ReutersGreece's famous riot dog, Loukanikos, barks at police officers in Athens.The Athens Stock Exchange is down 6.25% Wednesday and 23.24% since January. There are two factors absolutely tearing into Greek markets this week. One of those factors is the seemingly unstoppable rise of Syriza, Greece's anti-establishment and anti-austerity radicals. The group is establishing a solid lead in the polls, and given the unpredictable nature of Greek politics, it could upset the market in a massive way. But there's another major factor. Despite Greece's pretty grim economic state, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras wants to end the country's international bailout early, without taking the €8.2 billion ($10.44 billion) still left in the package. In a note, Capital Economics' Sarah Pemberton explains the government's logic:  There may also be a hope that an early exit would further boost market confidence in Greece’s economic and fiscal outlook. After all, Ireland and Portugal’s exits from their programmes appeared to have positive market effects. Greece's 10-year bond yields beg to differ with the government, as they are definitely not seeing any positive market effects. Investing.com Bond yields are climbing way back up above 7%, the highest level in six months. The Greek government has already tentatively experimented with going back to the bond market, issuing small amounts of debt. And though yields are way down from where they were during the euro crisis, it’s paying far more interest on that than other European finance departments. Government bond yields (the most common measure of how much it costs for a state to service its debt) are still far above those of Portugal or Ireland when those countries exited their bailouts. Capital Economics There's also a vicious cycle here. A plan to exit the bailout early sends bond yields upward, making the prospect of Greece going it alone increasingly scary. So bond yields go up some more.  Wednesday morning, a Fitch report came out saying the “large amounts of unreserved problem loans leave the four major banks' balance sheets vulnerable to developments in an improving but still very weak economy.” Greece's big listed banks are right in the middle of Wednesday's brutal sell-off, with share prices of the National Bank of Greece, Alpha Bank, Pireaeus Bank, and Eurobank all dropping by more than 10% during the day. The problem is, if even Germany is flirting with recession, it seems increasingly unlikely that we’ll be able to call Greece’s economy “improving” at all in a few months. So what Samaras is talking about could be extremely dangerous. Greece’s economy is shattered in a way nowhere else in Europe has seen: It’s nearly 30% smaller than it was in 2008, and it is barely out of a recession that’s lasted almost seven years.  Given what's happening today and the slump the eurozone seems to be heading into, people might soon wonder what on earth Samaras was thinking.  FREE AppDownload
