Tesla shares are up a whopping 16% after hours to $224.44. This comes after the company beat Q4 earnings and on its 2014 forecast. Tesla sees weekly production rates rising to 1,000 Model S vehicles from 600.  It expects more than 55% vehicle delivery growth in 2014 and sees production at 7,400 vehicles in the first quarter. "Deliveries will grow dramatically in future quarters as the logistics pipeline fills." Elon Musk has previously said the Tesla is production constrained not demand constrained, so the number was crucial from that point of view. Tesla delivered 6,892 Model S vehicles in Q4. This was roughly in line with the 6,900 deliveries that were pre-announced at the Detroit Auto show earlier this year. The green automaker reported Q4 adjusted earnings of $0.33 per share, on $761 million. This beat expectations for earnings of $0.25 per share, on revenue of $713.50 million. It also reported a gross margin of 25.2%. The first Model S deliveries to China are scheduled for this spring. "Already, the Beijing store is our largest and most active retail location in the world," he said. Tesla is looking to add new stores, service centers and a supercharger network in China this year. The price for the Model S will remain the same "adding only unavoidable taxes, customs duties and transportation costs." Management also sees costs rising this year. "Operating expenses and capital expenditures will increase significantly in 2014, as we plan to invest in the long term growth of Tesla," management said in the press release. "We plan to expand production capacity for Model S and Model X, invest in our store, service and Supercharger infrastructure, complete the development of Model X and start early design work on our third generation car." Tesla also said that it will soon share more information about a Tesla Gigafactory that will lower battery costs. "Working in partnership with our suppliers, we plan to integrate precursor material, cell, module and pack production into one facility. With this facility, we feel highly confident of being able to create a compelling and affordable electric car in approximately three years. This will also allow us to address the solar power industry’s need for a massive volume of stationary battery packs." Click here for the full press release » FREE AppDownload
