WikimediaJohn D. RockefellerA son of the oldest living member of the Rockefeller family has died after the small plane he was piloting crashed just outside New York. Dr Richard Rockefeller, 65, was flying solo in his single-engine plane back to his home in Maine on the morning after celebrating the 99th birthday of his father, the philanthropist David Rockefeller. The plane, a Piper Meridian, took off from Westchester County Airport just after 8 am on Friday and struck a line of trees just south-west of the White Plains airport minutes later in foggy conditions. Dr Rockefeller, a father of two, had been working on a way to treat post-traumatic stress disorder in wounded war veterans, family spokesman Fraser Seitel said. "It's a terrible tragedy," Mr Seitel said. "Richard was a wonderful cherished son, brother, father and grandfather." Dr Rockefeller's father David, the former chairman and chief executive of Chase Manhattan Bank, now JPMorgan Chase, and a prominent philanthropist, and a nephew of former Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, who also was governor of New York from 1959 to 1973. On Thursday, Dr Rockefeller ate dinner with his father in Westchester to celebrate the family patriarch's 99th birthday, Seitel said. Mr Seitel described him as an experienced pilot whose death left the family in shock. The plane crashed in the hamlet of Purchase, a New York City bedroom community of about 10,000 residents that houses a State University of New York campus. The airport was closed for a short time after the crash. The Federal Aviation Administration was investigating, and the National Transportation Safety Board was expected to arrive later Friday. An FAA control tower notified that the aircraft was missing from their radar" and an emergency response was initiated. At the time of the crash, the weather was foggy and visibility was about a quarter-mile (400 meters), police and airport officials said at a news conference. Pilots of private planes make the decision about whether to fly in such conditions, officials said. After narrowly missing the house, the plane hit some pine trees and crashed in a yard. The aircraft broke up into many pieces, which were strewn about the property, with some parts lodged in the trees. Julie Jacobson/ReutersCrews work near the site of the plane crash.Officials said there was no indication of a mayday or problem. Dr Rockefeller chaired the United States Advisory Board for Doctors Without Borders for more than 20 years, ending in 2010. He was involved in numerous other nonprofit activities. "Every aspect of his life was to advance the well-being of the world," said Tim Glidden, president of Maine Coast Heritage Trust, where Rockefeller served as board chairman from 2000 to 2006. Dr Rockefeller is survived by his wife, Nancy, and their children, Clayton and Rebecca. FREE AppDownload
