CNBCDave LutzDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a round-up of what traders are chatting about before the opening bell: Good Morning!   All about the Ukraine this AM, as Russia’s latest moves spark angst and a flight to safety.   Futures in the USA are marked off 1%, and just off the lows of the overnight. As VIX futures are marked up 10%   This mirrors weakness overseas, with the DAX off almost 3%, and the FTSE 2%, as banks have been hit by concerns over exposure to Russian and Ukrainian banks.   Volume is quite heavy in Europe, with most markets trading 50% above their recent 20day averages.   Russia off over 10% as the Rouble collapses to record lows – Their Central Bank stepped in and raised 150bp, citing “risks to financial stability”.  Poland’s market was initially hit for almost 4%.   Ukraine itself not off all the bad, as their FX is higher as they await bailout teams, and their CDS is only up 1% overnight.  In Asia,  China bounced almost 1% despite their PMI hitting 7M lows, as one of the “unintended consequences” of the Yuan weakening is liquidity is spiking in their money markets.  The Nikkei was hit for 1.2%, and futures are marked about 80bp lower – as the Yen is spiking on haven flows.   Sectors to focus on will be the weaker banks (Ukraine/Russia exposure) – Gold Miners (up 4% as Gold is spiking) – Casinos (Macau Numbers blowing out) – and the Divvy Sectors like REITS with 10YY dropping hard. 10YY crashes under the 200dma – Now yielding 2.6%, gearing up to test October Lows near 2.47%.  We have Safe haven FX jumping – including the Yen and Swiss Franc.  The Euro is getting hit sharply, helping the DXY bounce despite the jumping Yen – a headwind for commodities.  That said, Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter, including both oil and gas – so combined with the cold Northeast, we have both Brent and Natty up 2.5%.  Gold is adding 2% on haven flows, now the highest since October.  Wheat climbed the most in 17 months and corn rose to the highest since September as tensions escalated in Ukraine, a leading exporter of both grains. FREE AppDownload
