Wikimedia CommonsIn this post-crisis era, it’s easy to cringe at the notion of easing lending standards. After all, lax underwriting is what sparked the financial meltdown in the first place. With short-term lending to businesses growing sharply, then, the question is the obvious one: Is that increase the result of a risky decrease in standards? Or is it about something a little more encouraging? There’s a strong case to be made for the latter. First, the short history. Business credit in the U.S. plummeted in 2009 as banks saddled with nonperforming loans recoiled at any hint of risk and tightened their lending conditions dramatically. It spent 2011 to 2013 meandering down a path of tentative recovery. And then, in the first quarter of 2014, it took its first truly confident step forward in years. Total commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) loans outstanding jumped by 3.9 percent between January 15 and March 5, bringing the total to a record high of $1.7 trillion in early March. The market for non-financial commercial paper (basically, short-term promissory notes) has more than recovered from its post-Lehman plunge, when it dropped from $224 billion in January 2009 to $101 billion that December. It sat at $262 billion at the end of the first quarter—a 13-year high. Why is lending increasing so fast in the US? There are two primary factors: a recovering economy and loose monetary policy meant to entice businesses to take on more debt. What’s more, says Credit Suisse, investor demand for commercial paper is on the rise in the context of declining Treasury bill issuance resulting from smaller budget deficits. Bills accounted for just 13.4 percent of total Treasury debt outstanding in February, down from 15.4 percent the previous year. Regulators are telling banks to learn from recent history and avoid taking on dangerously risky assets again. And although financial institutions have been incrementally easing some lending terms over the past four years as competition for commercial loans increases, they’ve done so by decreasing spreads on C&amp;I loan rates, relying less on interest rate floors and lowering the cost of credit lines, according to the Federal Reserve’s Senior Loan Officer survey released in February. Banks have eased credit for large firms in 16 of the past 17 quarters, and for small firms in over 14 of the past 15 quarters, the report said. “Nearly every quarter since early 2010, banks have signaled that they’re more willing to make C&amp;I loans,” Credit Suisse economist Dana Saporta said in an interview. But there’s little cause for concern about that easing, Saporta and fellow economist Neal Soss write in a report entitled, “Catching Up with Business Credit Growth.” For one, businesses have been clamoring for credit in part because they’ve needed to finance a buildup of inventory from the fourth quarter. As firms either sell their extra goods or liquidate them, the drawdown will lower demand for financing. What’s more, just because banks have eased lending standards since their extreme tightening in 2008 and 2009 doesn’t mean they’ve gone back to their excessively loose pre-recession practices, Credit Suisse says. While there’s no single data point of “credit quality” to which one can point, anecdotal evidence suggests banks are being more careful. For their part, regulators have not identified any major red flags regarding imprudent risk taking. “If we had evidence that banks were compromising their standards in order to gain market share, that would be a concern. But we don’t have that evidence right now,” Saporta says. “It would be a mistake to conclude that credit conditions today are similar to those in early 2006.” More than anything, the increase in business loans is positive because it’s a sign the credit crunch is fading and the economy is improving. Increased lending means large corporations are obtaining the credit they need to run day-to-day operations, hold inventories and perhaps even finance new projects. This would point to potential future hiring increases if companies are seeking financing to expand capacity, which would in turn require more labor. “The recent loosening is moving us away from the severe risk aversion we saw in the Great Recession and towards a more normal lending environment,” Saporta says. “Credit-worthy borrowers are finding it easier to get access to credit, and that’s a good thing.” FREE AppDownload
