Thomson ReutersMester, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, attends the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson HoleCLEVELAND (Reuters) - Cleveland Federal Reserve President Loretta Mester said she thinks the Fed should overhaul how it communicates its policy guidance, perhaps tying its statements about monetary policy to forecasts about economic performance. In remarks here on Wednesday she said that as the Fed ends its crisis-era policies it should also move away from the type of qualitative forward guidance it has used in recent years to statements that are more directly tied to economic projections. While short of a formal monetary policy rule, Mester said such a system would give the public, investors and others a clearer sense of where monetary policy is heading based on economic performance. "I would like to see the forward guidance evolve over time to give more information about the conditions we systematically assess in calibrating the stance of policy to the economy's actual progress and anticipated progress," Mester said. Her comments come amid a broad review of Fed communications strategy led by Vice-Chair Stanley Fischer and a more immediate debate over how to change the current policy statement to pave the way for upcoming interest rate hikes and phase out language rooted in the economic crisis. Mester repeated an earlier critique - that she felt it was time for the Fed to drop as a key standing phrase that it would be a "considerable time," once a Fed bondbuying program ends this fall, before interest rates are increased. The phrase "tends to focus the public's attention on a calendar time for liftoff rather than the changes in economic conditions that will help determine changes in appropriate policy," she said. Mester, who currently votes on the Fed's main policy setting committee, did not dissent at the recent Fed meeting, and the language in the statement was left virtually untouched. The bondbuying program is set to end in October, and many analysts feel the phrase will almost certainly need to be dropped or at least modified at that point since the program it refers to will no longer exist. Whatever language emerges, the October session may be seen as the start of a countdown to the Fed's "liftoff" of interest rates, expected around the middle of next year. Mester did not indicate when she feels rates should increase. But she did say her economic projections are on the more optimistic side, with growth projected at 3 percent for the next two years, and unemployment expected to reach what she regards as a normal level of 5.5 percent by the end of 2015.   (Reporting By Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
