His colleagues often used the term ‘hotshot’ to describe him, as his sales technique was characterized by enthusiasm, spontaneity and sporadic impetuosity tempered by his undoubted charisma. He did not beat about the bush, he unapologetically charmed his would-be client and was generally successful in rapidly closing the sale. He was so successful that AIG transferred him to Tokyo where there was a lot of potential business among quickly expanding Japanese companies. During his first 6 weeks in Tokyo, Simpson did not close a single sale. His American supervisor concluded that his charismatic style — so successful in New York and Los Angeles — was ineffective when dealing with calm, reserved Japanese insurance managers. He resolved to give Simpson a month’s training (which he should have had in the first place) to allow him to become acculturated to the Japanese mentality. He therefore assigned him to Ichiro Harada, AIG’s top Japanese salesman, who took Simpson with him as he made sales calls. Language was no problem, as Harada spoke excellent English and interpreters were always available when required. One morning, with a humbled Simpson in tow, Harada went for his appointment with Akio Watanabe, the CEO of a sizeable Japanese domestic appliances manufacturer that was doing very well exporting their products to a dozen foreign countries, including the United States. It was not a cold call. AIG had secured the account three years earlier, but knew that some Japanese insurance companies were after the business and sensibly visited Mr Watanabe regularly to maintain good relations. Ichiro Harada, as AIG’s star sales executive, had been given the responsibility of safeguarding the account. Simpson was eager to see how he did it. Watanabe greeted Harada rather affably and seemed pleasantly disposed towards Simpson, who had been introduced as a trainee. Watanabe and Simpson exchanged visiting cards in the Japanese manner and everyone took a seat. Watanabe offered green tea all round and he and Harada began to chat in Japanese. Their tone was very courteous as usual, also visibly relaxed. Simpson, who had taken a 6-week Japanese course before coming to Tokyo, was able to follow the gist of the conversation, though understanding very little. What he was able to perceive, however, was that the two men were not talking about insurance. He gleaned certain references to baseball, a festival in Kyoto and of course golf. The weather was also mentioned, but as the conversation progressed, over a period of almost half an hour, Simpson’s understanding decreased as the two Japanese seemed to speak more rapidly, possibly more idiomatically. Certainly they appeared more and more jovial. Just when Simpson was beginning to wonder when Harada would get down to business (or at least mention insurance) Watanabe stood up, put his hand in the drawer of his desk and handed Harada a set of keys. Simpson knew the rule about meetings being concluded in Japan by the host getting to his feet, so he dutifully followed Harada out of the office of the CEO, who gave both Harada and himself a cheery good-bye for now. Harada took the bewildered Simpson into a nearby coffee shop to give the American an immediate post-mortem on the sales call. Simpson’s questions were both to the point: Why had Harada not even mentioned the account and why had Watanabe given him a set of keys? Harada smiled indulgently as he explained, “There was no need to mention business, as the account remains secure, as long as I say nothing than displeases President Watanabe. As he likes baseball and is a keen golfer, these subjects, as well as some others, are safe ground for discussion. I support the same baseball team and my golf handicap is inferior to his. I never talk about anything that might be controversial. A half hour’s chat like this one, once a month, gives him occasions for relaxation. Normally he has to work 10-12 hour days and he welcomes this type of break. He cannot be bothered by strangers coming into his office trying to sell him insurance”. “But what were the keys?” “They are his car keys.” “What will you do with them?” “I will take his wife shopping.” Simpson gaped. “Shopping?” “Yes, to the Takashimaya Department Store, which has some dresses she is interested in.” “And when will you do this?” “In half an hour’s time when I go to his house. I am sorry I have to leave you this morning but I hope you can find your way back to the office.” “Yes, but can you explain a little more?” Harada smiled patiently. “Mr. Watanabe is a rich man. He has a lovely wife, two fine children, a big house, a luxury car and of course a good job. One thing he has not got is time. Japanese wives, as you probably know, tend to stay home during the day. Mrs. Watanabe would not like to make a one-hour journey on the underground alone. She does not drive. Mr Watanabe drives into work — I shall pick up his car in the company garage in a few minutes. Of course he could take his wife shopping on Sundays, but the department stores are hopelessly overcrowded at weekends and shopping can be exhausting and unpleasant. The best time to go shopping is on the morning of a weekday, that is NOW.” “And you will drive her?” “Of course. And at 3 or 4 in the afternoon I will drive her back home and then return the car, with keys, to Mr. Watanabe’s garage between 5 and 6.” “A full day’s work.” “That is correct.” “But no mention of business.” “It’s the last thing he wants to talk about.” Simpson swallowed hard. But he was not quite satisfied with what he had learnt. “Mr. Harada, I see that your argument is fool-proof. But one more thing: how did you get the account in the first place?” Harada smiled again. “That is another story”. He told Simpson the following: “I happen to live a quarter of a mile away from Mr. Watanabe’s house. He drives to work every day, leaving his home at 7.30am. He always takes the same route, which means that he passes a bus stop very near where we both live. The bus concerned takes me to Ohte-machi (central Tokyo) and stops near my office. I made it my business to stand at this particular bus stop every morning at 7.25. "Every day Mr. Watanabe drove past me at a distance of 5 metres. Of course he did not know me, but when he had passed me 20-30 mornings, he became aware of my presence. You could say that after 2-3 months I became a familiar figure. Whenever he looked at me en passant, I would smile at him and bow slightly. This is not unusual in Japan when we see a stranger regularly. We are very polite people and actually quite sociable inside, though foreigners are not always aware of this. "In summer months, especially June and July, it can rain very heavily in Tokyo. You can get very wet queueing for a bus. In a particularly wet period in June about 3 years ago, Mr. Watanabe drove past me as usual on his way to work. Some mornings I deliberately ‘forgot’ my umbrella and he would have noticed that I was soaked to the skin. I must have presented a pathetic figure with my drenched raincoat and humble briefcase. I never failed to nod to Mr. Watanabe as he passed. One morning, in a real downpour, his car pulled in to the bus stop and he picked me up. "Of course we chatted on the one-hour drive into town. He informed me about his business and I told him about my lowly position as an insurance agent. The next morning he picked me up again in another downpour. The third morning it was dry but he picked me up anyway. "After that he gave me a lift every day, though I purposely used another bus stop now and again. I did not wish to over-do things. Over time, we got to know each other quite well. We compared hobbies and part-time pursuits. He told me about his wife’s problems with shopping. Of course I humbly offered to help. We never discussed insurance, until one day he said he would like AIG to put in a quote. The rest, as you can see, is history.” “But Mr. Harada, you must admit you were fortunate in that Mr. Watanabe was soft-hearted enough to pick you up in the rain.” Harada shrugged. “Not really. It was only natural. I would have done the same for him.” This anecdote was provided by linguist and cross-culture studies expert Richard Lewis. Read his work in detail in "When Cultures Collide" and check out his services for businesses and individuals at Richard Lewis Communications. FREE AppDownload
