The millennial generation is growing up, and they're going to have a huge effect on the country's economic future. There is no universal definition of exactly when the millennial generation begins or ends. Goldman Sachs, in a recent set of reports, chose to set the cutoffs as people born between 1980 and 2000. Sociologists William Strauss and Neil Howe, widely credited with coming up with the term millennial, define the generation as people born between 1982 and 2004. Historically, 16- to 24-year-olds have always had higher unemployment than their older cohorts, but unemployment for younger millennials has skyrocketed since the financial crisis and is only slowly returning to normal: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics Labor force participation has been flat or dropping for teenagers and young adults for a while, with millennials less likely to be in the labor force than teenagers and young adults of past generations. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics Goldman Sachs Millennials are coming into their 30s, which means they will be an increasingly important consumer group, as seen in this Goldman Sachs chart: Goldman Sachs Pew Research Center Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs This is a result of the culture of health prevalent among this generation: Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Millennials are more likely than other generations to share their opinions on the things they buy using emerging social-media technologies: Goldman Sachs Here's some demographic background on this rising generation. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau A higher proportion of 18- to 24-year-olds are going to college now than at any time in the past: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the National Center for Education Statistics Relatedly, older millennials and Gen-Xers are better educated than their parents and grandparents: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census' 2012 American Community Survey Nine of the 10 cities with the highest proportion of people between 16 and 34 are college towns: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census' 2012 American Community Survey   Overall, while millennials face economic headwinds, they're poised to become a highly technologically capable consumer force in the coming years. FREE AppDownload
