AP Photo/Mel EvansTens of thousands of activists walked through Manhattan on Sunday, warning that climate change is destroying the Earth — in stride with demonstrators around the world who urged policymakers to take quick action.Hello! Here's what people will be chatting about on Monday.  1. A yet-to-be-released report from the Centers for Disease Control estimates that Ebola could infect up to 500,000 people by the end of January without additional aid from governments, Bloomberg News reports.  2. An estimated 311,000 demonstrators flooded the streets of New York City on Sunday to call for action on climate change. The People's Climate March, which also took place in other cities around the globe, comes ahead of a United Nations summit on Tuesday in which leaders will discuss ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  3. NASA's Maven spacecraft slipped into orbit around Mars late Sunday after launching from Earth 10 months ago. The next Mars explorer will provide hints about how the red planet lost its atmosphere and surface water over time.  4. More than 70,000 Syrian Kurds have fled to Turkey in the past day to escape the Islamic State militant group.  5. The heirs to the Rockefeller fortune will announce on Monday plans to begin divesting their charity, Rockefeller Brothers Fund, from fossil fuel companies to help combat climate change, The New York Times reports.  6. Alibaba's IPO set a world record at $25 billion after the e-commerce company "exercised an option to boost the deal size by 15% on strong demand," Bloomberg Businessweek reports. 7.  Pope Francis, 77, on Sunday visited Albania, where he praised the government for creating "national unity among Muslims, Orthodox, and Catholics, with an interreligious council that has helped a lot and is balanced," the AFP said.  8. Spain's central government will try to block a law passed Friday by Catalonia's parliament that calls for an independence referendum on Nov. 9, The Wall Street Journal reports.  9. Sunday marked one year since an Al Qaeda affiliate shot and killed at least 67 people at the Westgate shopping center in Nairobi, Kenya. A black granite stone plaque was unveiled to honor the victims.  10. Oculus, the company bought by Facebook in March, unveiled a new virtual reality headset prototype, called "Crescent Bay," on Saturday.  And finally... Emma Watson, a goodwill ambassador for UN Women, received a standing ovation following her speech on gender equality at the UN headquarters in New York City on Saturday.  You can watch below:   FREE AppDownload
