Last week, I discussed what I think is clear about the increasing concentration of income in the hands of fewer people in the US. I used a graph of the income earned by the top 5% of US taxpayers as it relates to what party holds the Presidency. For those who didn’t see the graph, here it is once again. futurebrief.wordpress.com Roughly thirty years of stability, followed by thirty years of an uphill climb until the proportion of income earned by the top 5% has nearly doubled. If you do the same with the top 1% or top 10%, you get the same basic results. As I said last week, this graph tells me one thing: That the party identification or the ideological identification of the governing President made absolutely no difference at all to the proportion of income received by the top 5%. Of course, that is not what politicians will tell you, but that’s another story. Today, I want to answer the obvious question. If politics and ideology have nothing to do with this, then what is the cause of this dramatic shift? A new world The shift begins in the 1980s, a period during which I traveled and worked extensively overseas — and unless you’re at least 50, and that’s a low estimate, you will not be able to remember that period three decades ago as an adult.  Consider the period 1976 – 1991. It began with Mao’s death and the struggle for control of China. In 1981, Deng Xiaoping took control and began the modernization process that led to China’s current economy, beginning the slow, but sure, opening up of China to the outside world. Mikhail Gorbachev became the Soviet Union’s center of attention in 1985, the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, and the flag of the Soviet Union was lowered for the last time on December 25, 1991. All told, it brought the end of the Cold War and Mao’s China and the opening up of a truly global market. I worked through that period overseas, but I had doing that for more than a decade prior to its beginning. I started in 1967 as a Peace Corps Volunteer in the Philippines and, with the exception of a couple years working on the domestic US scene, the 47 years of my life since then have remained focused on global economic development, working in more than 40 nations in Asia, Latin America, and Africa, many of which are called emerging or frontier markets today. Now back in the 70s and 80s, it was raw dental work to get an American business interested in Africa. When I met with the commercial attaché of the Japanese Embassy in Ghana in 1973, he sneered at Americans for being so blind to the business potential. In 1981, I was told bluntly by the leader of a team from Ralston-Purina that they saw absolutely no market in Africa and didn’t believe they ever would (I am amused they were bought by Nestlé, a company that has marketed in Africa for decades).  But in the 90s there was a change as it suddenly became easy to fly to countless places around the world. When I visited Ghana in 1995 after more than a decade of absence, I found plenty of new hotels, all of them stuffed to the rafters with visiting business people, many of them Americans. I could hardly believe my eyes and ears. The “dark continent” was becoming the “new market." And who were the Americans traveling starting businesses in Ghana and around the world? They certainly were not poor people and few were middle class. They may not all have been part of the top 5%, but those are the people who sent them. In short, Americans with high levels of disposable income were people who had the means and experience to take advantage of the new global market opening up all around them and, as an added bonus in recent years, overseas investments might be less vulnerable to the whims and machinations of American politicians. It took them little time to figure out that what was going on globally was a huge opportunity, and they were not afraid to take advantage of it. The top 5% has been globalized. It is hardly a surprise that they have benefited from that in ways not available to Americans with modest means and modest experience outside the US. There is a new global upper class that has rapidly developed over the last three decades. They are still very much citizens of their various nations, but they really relate better to each other than they do to the rest of us back home, wherever “home” might be. They are not evil people or scoundrels. What they are doing is perfectly ordinary and simply human, but it has some unintended negative consequences for the rest of us. I will leave it at that for the moment, but I will return to it more than once in future posts. Back to the future I will close today by sharing the other graph I included last week, a very simple one I created from US income statistics and nothing new to most of you. It presents the same information as the one at the beginning of this commentary, but without the politics. futurebrief.wordpress.com With my background, I cannot look at this graph without thinking of the end of the Cold War and Mao’s China. It is one of the things that concern me the most about what passes for “global analysis” in the US these days. Too much attention to monkeys dancing on the stage and too little to the 800-pound gorilla in the back row of the theater. Americans are not ignorant of the simple fact that that their “world” has changed. Neither were Europeans in their post-colonial period of the last half of the 20th century, but like the Europeans then, too many American analysts today are still failing to come to grips with the reality of the second decade of the 21st century. They are not actually “in denial” as some might say. They are “in avoidance”. When the gorilla is too much to deal with honestly and forthrightly, you keep your eyes on the monkeys. It isn’t working for Europe. It won’t work for the US either. FREE AppDownload
