YouTube/ZAGATDavid Einhorn just made over $92 million on a bagel company. Einstein Noah Restaurant Group announced on Monday that it reached an agreement to be acquired for $20.25 per share in cash, or approximately $374 million. In afternoon trade on Monday, shares of Einstein were up more than 50% to about $20.15. David Einhorn's hedge fund, Greenlight Capital, is the largest stockholder of Einstein Noah Restaurant Group and owns more than 35% of its shares, according to the company. According to data from Bloomberg, Einhorn owns more than 13 million shares of Einstein, a stake worth more than $270 million at current prices. Einhorn called the deal a "win-win for all parties." Einstein Noah Restaurant Group, or ENRG, is the largest operator of bagel bakeries in the US. The group owns three independent brands: Einstein Bros Bagels, Noah's New York Bagels, and Manhattan Bagel. And we've decided to take a look at some of the bagels offered at these different chains. First up, Einstein Bros Bagels. There are over 600 Einstein Bros Bagels found in 40 states, according to the ENRG website. Here's what an Einstein Bros Bagels breakfast looks like. This one is a ham and Swiss omelet on a sesame bagel (plus the coffee). Flickr Just like many other breakfast chains, Einstein Bagel Bros recently embraced the autumnal pumpkin craze. This customer snapped a photo of a pumpkin latte and a pumpkin bagel. Happy fall.  And although bagels tend to be major calorie bombs with little nutritional value, Einstein Bros Bagels actually advertises the healthiness of their bagels.   They also offer very skinny bagels called "Thintastic Bagels", and they're about half the calorie value of the traditional bagels. They look more like English muffins than bagels, though. Foursquare Noah's are only located in California, Oregon and Washington. According the ENRG website, "Noah's New York Bagels are designed to whimsically imitate an authentic New York deli." Here's what Noah's thinks that looks like: This is one of their breakfast sandwich bagels.  Flickr This one's an onion bagel with tomatoes, cucumbers and onions. Foursquare Here are two more bagels from one of their San Francisco locations. The one on the right is a cheese-bagel hybrid. Foursquare And last but not least... Manhattan Bagel offers 24-fresh baked bagel varieties. It's "an East Coast favorite for those with discriminating tastes," according to the ENRG website. Look at all those bagel varieties. There's even a chocolate chip bagel in there. Foursquare Here's a Manhattan Bagel lunch sandwich. Complete with a pickle. Foursquare And here are some unique green-colored (we're guessing that they were St. Patrick's Day themed) from one of their New Jersey locations. Foursquare FREE AppDownload
