Reuters/ Jack CusanoBill Ackman is taking a piece of his hedge fund, Pershing Square, public, Bloomberg reports. In a letter to investors, published at Valuewalk, the billionaire wrote that he sees one of his fund's going public later this year, boosting the amount of permanent capital it holds. It will likely IPO on the London Stock Exchange. Pershing Square is up 32.1% year to date and 16.1% in the 2nd quarter, net of fees. Ackman wrote that over the last 10 years his fund is up 626.7%. It's a nice stat to point to before you take your company public — a la Carl Icahn. Because we are an active, control and influence-oriented investor, we have avoided being fully invested because of the risk of investor redemptions. For example, during 2009, despite a relatively strong 2008 and a 41% net return in 2009, we had to keep a substantial portion of our assets in cash because of the large amount of investor redemptions we received. We will hopefully begin to address this issue with the initial public offering of Pershing Square Holdings, Ltd. (PSH), targeted for later this year, which will increase the amount of our capital that is permanent. This capital raise will help Ackman continue his Icahn-like strategy too —  a breed of large cap, shareholder activism, the virtues of which he extols in the letter. Activism has a “public good” problem for the activist in that all of the other shareholders who typically comprise 90% or more of a target can be considered free riders with none of the costs or the illiquidity, and with all of the upside. The only investors who don’t materially benefit from the activist’s involvement are those that sell out into the activist’s accumulation of its toehold investment in the target, a stake which is typically less than 10% of shares outstanding. And even those sellers benefit, since they are able to sell at a price that has likely increased as a result of the activist’s purchases. The “public good” problem is a reasonable cost for the activist to bear because it is typically the largest shareholder of the corporation. Ackman also rails against those who would change SEC regulation to force activist shareholders to disclose their positions earlier than they have to now. The letter also addresses Ackman's infamous Herbalife short, saying that he may extend the position by paying more premiums. Read the full letter below: Pershing Square Investor Letter Q2, 2014 by Linette Lopez  FREE AppDownload
