Masters of the Universe aren't known for having anything resembling a jewelry collection except for one item — a watch. They're collectible, gorgeous and at times incredibly expensive pieces that can be handed down from generation to generation Exactly the type of thing a titan of any industry would want. We've put together a list and commentary about the wristwatches worn by some of Wall Street's most public executives.  As expected, a couple of the watches are flashy. A few of them are really, really cheap by Wall Street standards. And one prominent banker doesn't even wear a watch. Ever.  (If you know of the type of timepiece that an executive at your firm wears, feel free to send the tip to jlaroche@businessinsider.com) Check it out:  AP Images Buffett, the "Oracle of Omaha," wears a gold Rolex Day-Date.  Reuters/ Lucas JacksonGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein rocks a Swatch with what appears to be a clear plastic band. Swatch's tend to range between $50 to $245. It's also not exactly the sort of timepiece you'd expect a chief executive of a Wall Street investment bank to wear. Then again, Goldman is "the most hipster" bank on Wall Street.   Reuters/ Tim ShafferInvesting legend Jack Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group, wears a $14 wristwatch he received from a shareholder. "I received in the mail a wristwatch from a devoted shareholder in California. On the dial were printed our Vanguard logo, my name, and a phrase that was an indication I was still looking out for our shareholders: "Still on Watch." It was also an outrageous pun: "Still on Watch." Confident that it would be my rabbit’s foot, I put the watch on my wrist, where, having proved itself, it remains to this day. (Yes, I knew about the $50 limit on gifts. So I checked the catalog for the price. It was $14. Talk about value!)," he wrote.   Reuters/ Jessica Rinaldi We learned about Jeff Gundlach's watch collection when he had a bunch of his artwork and personal property stolen.   According to the Santa Monica Police Department report, the watches that were stolen included a Glashutte, Breitling, A. Lange &amp; Sohne, TAG Heuer and a Patek Philippe. We couldn't nail down prices for these specific models, but every one can run in the tens of thousands of dollars or more. See below:  Santa Monica PD Talk about some serious wrist candy. Fortunately, the DoubleLine Capital CEO brilliantly helped the FBI recover his stolen property. Reuters/ Brian SnyderBill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital, sports a watch with a black band and dark face. It's classy and not flashy. We can't identify the watchmaker, though.  AP ImagesPrivate equity chief Lynn Tilton, the founder of Patriarch Partners, wears a MASSIVE bejeweled timepiece by Jacob the Jeweler. It's definitely fits her "dust to diamonds" persona. Reuters/ Brendan McDermidHedge funder Phil Falcone wears a black sports watch (it looks like Casio G-Shock) and some friendship bracelets and beads (We're assuming his twin girls made those for him). Reuters/ Yuri GripasJames Gorman wears a stainless steel Rolex Daytona, according to Ben Clymer, the founder of watch site Hodinkee. Reuters/ Yuri Gripas Jamie Dimon doesn't wear a watch. Ever. Apparently, he doesn't care for jewelry.  FREE AppDownload
