REUTERS/Gary CameronJPMorgan Chase missed on its first quarter earnings.  The bank reported EPS of $1.28 for the first quarter compared with $1.59 in the first quarter of 2013. First quarter revenue came in at $23.9 billion, down 8% from the first quarter of 2013. The largest U.S. bank was expected to report adjusted earnings per share of $1.46, according to average analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue was expected to come in at $24.48 billion. The stock was last trading down 2% in the pre-market. JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon says that he's confident about the economy. "We have growing confidence in the economy – consumers, corporations and middle market companies are in increasingly good financial shape and housing has turned the corner in most markets – and we are doing our part to support the recovery. JPMorgan Chase provided credit and raised capital of over $450 billion for our clients during the first quarter of 2014, which included $5 billion for U.S. small businesses," Dimon said in the earnings release. Here's an excerpt from the release:  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM): JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM) today reported net income for the first quarter of 2014 of $5.3 billion, compared with net income of $6.5 billion in the first quarter of 2013. Earnings per share were $1.28, compared with $1.59 in the first quarter of 2013. Revenue1 for the quarter was $23.9 billion, down 8% compared with the prior year. The Firm’s return on tangible common equity1 for the first quarter of 2014 was 13%, compared with 17% in the prior year. As previously announced, the Board of Directors intends to increase the second-quarter common stock dividend to $0.40 per share3 from the current $0.38 per share; and the Board has also authorized the Firm to repurchase $6.5 billion of common equity commencing within the second quarter of this year through the end of the first quarter of 2015. During the first quarter of 2014, the Firm repurchased $0.4 billion of common equity. The Federal Reserve Board informed the Firm that it does not object to the Firm’s proposed 2014 capital distribution plan. Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented on the financial results: “JPMorgan Chase had a good start to the year, given there were industry-wide headwinds in Markets and Mortgage. Consumer &amp; Community Banking deposit growth and card sales volume both remain above the industry average2, and we have made significant progress in Business Banking originations – up 22%. The Corporate &amp; Investment Bank was #1 in Global IB fees, with #1 positions in global debt and equity, global syndicated loans and global long-term debt. Gross investment banking revenue with Commercial Banking clients was up 31%. Asset Management had its twentieth consecutive quarter of positive net long-term client flows and had record loan balances, up 20%.” Dimon continued: “We have growing confidence in the economy – consumers, corporations and middle market companies are in increasingly good financial shape and housing has turned the corner in most markets – and we are doing our part to support the recovery. JPMorgan Chase provided credit and raised capital of over $450 billion for our clients during the first quarter of 2014, which included $5 billion for U.S. small businesses.” Dimon concluded: “As I said in my letter to shareholders this week, we will dedicate extraordinary effort in 2014 adapting to the new global financial architecture, and we will continue to make significant progress on our control agenda. We face the future with a strong foundation, a fortress balance sheet and excellent franchises built to serve our clients.” FREE AppDownload
