By coincidence, this view is reflected in a research paper, “Young, Restless and Creative: Openness to Disruption and Creative Innovations” by Daron Acemoglu, Ufuk Akcigit, and Murat Alp Celik. This paper argues that openness to new, unconventional and disruptive ideas has a first-order impac ton creative innovations — innovations that break new ground in terms of knowledge creation.  … Our measures of creative innovations proxy for innovation quality (average number of citations per patent) and creativity (fraction of superstar innovators, the likelihood of a very high number of citations, and generality of patents). Our main proxy for openness to disruption is manager age. This variable is based on the idea that only companies or societies open to such disruption will allow the young to rise up within the hierarchy. Using this proxy at the country, firm or patent level, we present robust evidence that openness to disruption is associated with more creative innovations. To take things a step further, this study makes a strong argument that, in effect, not only that younger societies are more likely to have dynamic, open economies, but so are societies that make it easy to start new companies and make it hard for government to bail out failing incumbents. And it is not just a few heroic entrepreneurs or superscientists who are important in this effort. All of us has a role to play, according to the film. And that’s right. As Amar Bhide has written, innovation comes at all levels of a company: ” … the development and effective deployment of new products entails the development and use of many different levels (high, middle, and ground) and kinds (scientific, engineering, managerial, sales, and marketing) of know-how.”  And as “venturesome” consumers use new products and services, their feedback is incorporated into new and better versions. And when lots of us are focused on new ideas and new ways of doing things — and when big government and big business don’t get in the way — everything really is kind of awesome. Follow James Pethokoukis on Twitter at @JimPethokoukis, and AEIdeas at @AEIdeas. FREE AppDownload
