Shutterstock.comIt takes time and effort to grow a beautiful beard.Movember is coming, guys…and with it, your next chance to not only support a worthy charity but also explore the rich world of expressive facial hair. (For the uninitiated: Grow a beard, try out a mustache, and in either case, raise money for organizations battling prostate cancer, testicular cancer, and mental illness.) If you’re already onboard the bearded train, though, you may be wondering how to upgrade your grooming. I quizzed Eric Bandholz, founder of grooming label Beardbrand and owner of a beard that would have Nick Offerman gaping in disbelief, on the do’s and don’ts of Instagram-worthy facial hair. For those of you with your beard basics down pat, read on. What’s the biggest grooming mistake men make when they decide to try out a beard? Trimming or shaving too early. It’s easy to make mistakes and scrap the entire beard. It’s best to let it grow out for about one or two months before touching it. If you must trim, then only trim up what is out of place. So you should only be trimming off about 10 to 40 hairs around the cheeks and neckline. What tools, at minimum, does a guy need to properly look after his beard?  A good comb or boar’s-hair brush will help keep things in line. We recommend using scissors over beard trimmers, as you have more control. Not all combs and brushes are created equal. I’d look for a hand-cut acetate comb versus an extruded molded comb. These combs won’t have the micro fissures that cause snags and damage your beard. Same goes with a plastic bristle brush versus a boar’s bristle brush. Do you have a beard icon, and if so, who? Oh man, there are so many fantastic beards out there that it’s hard to narrow it down. I think that Carlos Costa and Ben Dahlhaus are two icons with completely different looks. Carlos has the deep dark black beard, sharp haircut, and tattoos, while Ben has a lighter colored beard, but long hair, and no tats. Beard oil is the most fantastic product you can use for a beard. It really softens up the beard, adds a little shine, and smells delightful. It’s like heaven for your beard. It’s going to work for beards from about two weeks in length to two years in length. How is it best applied? A little one-ounce bottle will last about three months if you use it everyday. To apply it, simply put 3 to 8 drops in your hands and spread the oil. Then start working the oil into your beard, first onto the skin beneath the beard, then towards the beard hairs. I apply beard oil daily while my skin is still warm from the shower. FREE AppDownload
