The EconomistThe shrinking of British banks is bad for their employees, the City and Britain. "It hurts too much to think about," says the former head of a big British bank when asked about the retreat of Britain’s banking champions from international markets. "It is such a wasted opportunity." A senior executive at another big international bank is just as downbeat about London’s ability to attract investment. "The UK is a lot less attractive for us," he says. "We don’t trust it." Such comments would have been inconceivable a few years ago, when British banks were riding high and Britain’s role as the pre-eminent international financial centre seemed unassailable. Before the credit crunch, finance was Britain’s most successful industry, its biggest exporter, taxpayer and provider of well-paid jobs. Now it is being humbled, with negative consequences for the wider economy. The most easily measured is on government revenues. Corporate taxes paid by predominantly British banks accounted for 16% of the corporate tax take in 2013, more than the share from oil and gas firms in the North Sea. Yet this figure represents a drastic shrinkage. Since 2007 the amount of corporate taxes paid by financial firms has fallen by almost half. Well-paid jobs are also going in their tens of thousands. In recent weeks Barclays started cutting the first of 7,000 posts, mostly in its investment bank. This marks the end of its erstwhile effort to become one of the world’s biggest international banks. Other British banks are also in retreat. Back in 2008 Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) was the world’s third-largest bank. Yet last month it filed papers to spin off or sell its American retail banking unit as part of a process to scale back or divest all its businesses outside Britain. The shrinkage is wrenching for a country that more or less invented modern international banking. Exactly 150 years ago this newspaper crowed about Britain’s excellence in "understanding cautious, but not over cautious banking — bold, but not over bold banking — better than any other country." British banks proceeded to dominate international finance for over a century. By some measures they were only eclipsed by American rivals in the 1980s. But in the new millennium they made a spectacular return--zooming back into investment banking and onto the international stage. Having been almost absent from the rankings of the world’s biggest banks in the 1990s, British banks had by 2008 claimed two of the top three spots (see chart). But that was the peak, with RBS and HBOS since bailed out by a reluctant British government. And Barclays has suffered embarrassing losses, paid hefty fines for rigging key interest rates and been defenestrated by the Bank of England. It is now throwing in the towel on large parts of its investment bank. The only exception to this general decline is HSBC, an Asia-focused bank which only moved its headquarters to Britain in 1993. The retreat is partly by government decree. Politicians see little reason for state-owned banks such as RBS to have large foreign operations. Instead they encourage its managers to focus on the sorts of things that please voters, such as writing mortgages and providing loans to small businesses. New regulations, such as Britain’s ring-fence between retail and investment banking, are also encouraging banks to trim their international and investment-banking businesses. Does this matter? Those writing the new rules say, no. London has long been to finance as Wimbledon is to tennis, they say: Britain provides the court and encourages foreigners to provide the best players. They believe Britain can continue reaping the rewards of being an international banking centre, while at the same time having tame domestic banks that won’t put taxpayers’ money at risk of another bail-out. There is some merit to this. Some 250 foreign banks operate in Britain. Between them they own almost half the country’s banking assets. Foreign banks pay employee-related taxes and their staff pay income taxes, even if they generally structure their operations to ensure they pay little corporate tax. Yet London’s role as an international financial centre is coming under threat from many of the same forces that are shrinking British banks. Regulators around the world are fencing off domestic financial markets, forcing banks to set aside capital and liquidity to support local lending. Many are also restricting the ability of their own banks to expand into other markets. This "balkanisation" of finance may well lead to a financial system that is more resilient to foreign shocks, but less diversified and therefore riskier. Diversified banks with operations around the world are generally able to offset losses in one country with profits from another. Yet as British banks retreat to their home market, they will lose many of these benefits and will be more closely tied to the fortunes of the British economy. That means they are likely to find themselves lending too much when times are good and contracting too sharply when they are bad, exaggerating booms and busts. Shrunken banks may also have other big economic implications, not least if they are unable to finance exports. Britain’s banking industry still has many strengths, not least a cluster of skilled professionals that includes shipping and insurance experts as well as bankers, lawyers and accountants. It is located in a favourable time zone for trading between America and Asia. These make it likely that London will remain a centre of finance of some sort. But the diminution of home-grown banks will make the City less interesting and Britain poorer for it. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
