REUTERS/Jim YoungBill Gross.The bosses at PIMCO got paid last year. Here's Barry Ritholtz for Bloomberg: "According to documents provided to Bloomberg View by someone with knowledge of Pimco's bonus policies, the numbers break down like this: Gross earned $290 million as his year-end bonus for 2013. Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco's former chief executive officer and one-time heir apparent to Gross, received $230 million (El-Erian is a fellow Bloomberg View contributor)." It should go without saying those are just astronomical numbers. It's also worth noting that nine-figure pay isn't unusual for these folks. The New York Times previously reported that El-Erian took home $100 million in 2011. What's odd about this is that PIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund, which was managed by Gross, was an underperformer during this period. "While PIMCO does not comment on compensation, the figures provided to Bloomberg are not correct. For more than three decades, PIMCO's managing directors have maintained a substantial interest in the firm, currently 30% of profits, and this provides an important means to attract and retain the best investment talent to serve our clients," a PIMCO spokesperson said. PIMCO is a fund behemoth with a whopping $1.47 trillion in assets under management as of Sept. 30. The firm attracted a lot of unwanted attention when then-CEO El-Erian shocked the world with his surprise resignation. That was quickly followed by a series of stories from The Wall Street Journal and Reuters about the unorthodox management style of founder and then-co-CIO Gross. Morningstar, Business InsiderMeanwhile, the Total Return Fund booked 16 straight months of outflows through August for a cumulative total amount of about $68 billion. And after about nine months of drama, Gross rocked the finance industry with his own resignation announcement in September. In September, the Total Return Fund experienced a breathtaking $23.5 billion in net outflows. "Of note, the largest daily outflow occurred on the day of Bill Gross’s resignation from the firm, while outflows on the two following days were considerably smaller," PIMCO said in an Oct. 1 press release. Gross is now manager of Janus' tiny Unconstrained Bond Fund. According to Bloomberg's Mary Childs, the fund's assets under management more than quintupled to $442.9 million. According to Ritholtz's report, PIMCO's Daniel Ivascyn "took home a $70 million bonus." Reuters/ Steve Marcus Daniel Ivascyn.Shortly after Gross' resignation, PIMCO announced Ivascyn would take the helm as group CIO. Ivascyn, sometimes referred to as "beast" by his colleagues, has been the manager of PIMCO's Income Fund, a fund that experienced inflows while Gross's Total Return fund experienced outflows. "Investors have shown confidence in PIMCO as evidenced by significant inflows into strategies such as the PIMCO Income Fund, which has seen over $6.5bn of net inflows year to date in 2014," PIMCO said in an Oct. 1 statement. The charts below come from a recent report from Morningstar. As you can see, while the Total Return Fund has lost about 30% of assets under Gross' purview, the Income Fund has blown up by about 30% under Ivascyn's purview. Morningstar It is trends like this that have PIMCO employees confident that the firm's outlook is bright in the post-Bill Gross era. FREE AppDownload
