REUTERS/Lee CelanoCrew members look over idle oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico near Port Fourchon, Louisiana August 11, 2010. Of this, there is no debate: The future of Mexico’s oil industry lies offshore, where billions of barrels of crude are locked under the sea floor in the Gulf of Mexico. The country’s deepwater frontier is promising, but successfully extracting offshore oil is expensive and technically difficult, and Petroleos Mexicanos, the state-owned oil monopoly known as Pemex, doesn’t have the financial resources to singlehandedly exploit the Gulf’s ample resources. So they’re going to bring in outside help. In a dramatic about-face, the Mexican government, which historically has been fiercely protective of its energy assets, has finally concluded that outside help is necessary. Reform legislation signed into law in December will, for the first time in 75years, make it possible—and attractive—for established foreign energy producers to help set those buried hydrocarbons free. The need is obvious in Pemex’s own results: On Feb. 27, the Mexico City-based company posted its fifth straight quarterly loss—76.5 billion pesos, or $5.8 billion, on production of 2.52 million barrels per day in 2013, down from 2.55 million barrels per day in 2012. Output at the Cantarell oil field, the world’s third-largest when it was discovered 38 years ago, has fallen from 2.1 million barrels per day in 2003 to 400,000 barrels last year. The company pays more than 90 percent of its operating profit back to the government, so its losses are hitting the Mexican economy where it counts. To boost production and exploit new deepwater opportunities, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) had little choice but to relax the decades-old laws that nationalized the energy sector, and to open Mexico’s oil fields to foreign investment for the first time in nearly four generations. Pemex currently functions in a vacuum, without a single significant revenue-sharing partnership that would provide access to the new technologies, knowledge and financial resources that could boost productivity. “Mexico has a lot of potential with regard to hydrocarbons,” Rolando Galindo, Pemex’s head of investor relations tells The Financialist. “But these more complex reservoirs have higher costs and technology requirements … and it was getting very complicated for Pemex to do all of this alone.” The reform legislation allows three new types of production contracts. Profit-sharing contracts will award foreign companies a portion of the profits generated by a given oil-and-gas concession; production-sharing contracts allow them to keep a share of the actual oil and gas production; and licenses require them to pay taxes and royalties to the government to explore and extract oil from a specific concession. The licensing and production-sharing contracts represent a sea change, allowing foreign and private investors to book the production from Mexican oil fields as assets for the first time. Until the recent reform, only Pemex could own Mexican crude, whether it was untapped reserves or those extracted at the wellhead. But by loosening the monopoly, the government hopes it can outsource the most technically difficult parts of the job to companies like BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil, and Shell. The potential payoff is enormous. Mexico’s proven reserves stand at around 10.3 billion barrels of oil and 17.3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, but the most optimistic estimates of offshore reserves are double that. Pemex CEO Emilio Lozoya thinks that the Perdido Fold Belt in the northwestern part of the Gulf holds between 8 billion and 13 billion barrels of oil-equivalent alone. The state-owned oil company has already drilled 14 commercially viable deepwater wells, and last month it announced the discovery of high-quality light crude at a well in the Perdido Fold Belt. Pemex has also done some initial exploration work in Holok-Temoa, a deepwater natural gas field located in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico. If the reforms proceed as expected, Pemex’s Lozoya estimates it could generate about $10 billion in new investment by 2025. For its part, Pemex forecasts oil production will grow 60 percent over the current level of approximately 2.5 million barrels per day by 2025, while natural gas production should double to 14.6 billion cubic feet a day. That, in turn, could boost annual GDP growth by 1 percent annually by 2018 and up to 1.6 percent annually by 2025. Mexico’s 2.1 million barrel-per-day domestic demand is expected to absorb some of the new production, but there are export plans as well. The U.S. buys about 78 percent of Mexico’s oil, but the boom in shale oil and gas production has already reduced U.S. imports and will likely continue doing so. So Pemex has already begun to market its light Olmeca crude abroad, with shipments scheduled to India and the Cressier refinery in Switzerland. Congress is expected to spell out the details of the new production contracts by the end of April. Meanwhile, Pemex has until the end of March to decide which fields it wants to develop on its own and which it will seek partnerships to tap, after which the Ministry of Energy has six months to approve the decision. Galindo said it will likely take until late 2015 or early 2016 to start working on those so-called Round Zero projects. The energy buzz in North America has been from further north of late, whether it’s the Canadian tar sands or United States’ shale fracking. But if things go as hoped, North America’s third-largest economy should soon be enjoying an oil boom all its own. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
