Student loan debt is a growing problem in the United States (and might I say, the problem is also unique to the states as well). It is said to top $1.2 trillion by the end of 2014. It has already over taken credit card debt and auto loan debt coming in second to only mortgage debt. According to this article in the WSJ, average debt for the class of 2014 is $33,050 (an increase from $29,000 in 2013) and increasing. So why is debt increasing? Well, the obvious reason is that college tuition is getting more expensive. But why is tuition increasing? One argument (and one I agree with) is simple economics. It is crucial to hold a bachelors and a master’s degree (in my opinion) in order to have a well-paying job. The demand for higher education is very strong. However, on the flip side, the supply is arguably limited. We don’t see as many new colleges popping up each year and even if they did, they wouldn’t have the cachet to attract a large or even moderate number of students. This leaves the job of meeting demand to a limited number of universities allowing them the ability to squeeze as much out of you as possible. But with my education, I’ll be able to get a great job and easily payoff by debt… Maybe. That was the initial plan anyways, but as reality has proven, it’s easier said than done. Truth is, many of us go into college think this exact thought but as we enter the job market, it turns out our degrees don’t quiet hold up. I shouldn't say all degrees, certainly degrees in STEM fields, business (I hope, I’m bias because I fall into this category) have a greater return than say a bachelors in philosophy. But does that mean that everyone should go into engineering? Honestly, I don’t know. I would like to say no and want people to pick majors based on their interest but sadly with the current situation that doesn’t seem practical. So who is profiting from these loans? Well, the US government (mostly) and consequently the US economy. But here’s the thing, does the profits from the interest from the loans outweigh the long term drawbacks from the high debt rate? As the WSJ article explains, student loan is having an effect on the housing market recovery. Home ownership under the age of 35 is at a record low. The article also mentions that student loan debt may not be the cause citing rising home prices, caution lenders and stagnant wages among possible causes. However, I would argue that even with those reasons, added debt does not help. It effects credit scores dramatically which creates an obstacle for big purchases which in aggregate with outweigh the revenue that these loans generate for the economy. Not only has that, but having a ton of debt also effected one’s health which may also put a greater burden of the nation’s healthcare system. So what’s the solution? I believe the government should have an aggressive subsidization policy when it comes to tuition costs and best case scenario, foot the entire bill (similar to some Scandinavian countries). At the very least, lower the interest rates (maybe care a near zero percent similar to those offered to the banks?) and have an income based repayment scheme. To be clear, I’m not saying these are the only solutions just what makes sense to me. Let me know your thoughts on student loan debt and if you think they are worth it and if the current system is sustainable. This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
