 Wal-Mart wants managers to do a better job stocking grocery shelves.  Last month, the retailer sent out a memo instructing managers across the country to improve their dairy, meat, and produce departments, report Steven Greenhouse and Hiroko Tabuchi at The New York Times.  The memo was in response to customer complaints, the newspaper reports.  In the document, Wal-Mart "tells stores to be sure to 'rotate' dairy products and eggs, which means removing expired items and adding new stock at the bottom and back of display cases." The Times reporters paid a visit to a New York Wal-Mart, where they observed "dented and dirty" milk cartons and a poorly stocked produce section.  The Times said the memo was leaked by a Wal-Mart manager who was unhappy about understaffing.  Wal-Mart's operations are hurt by "the lack of labor in the stores to get the inventory out of the back rooms and onto the sales floor," Bloomberg's Renee Dudley reported, citing a Cleveland Research Co. note. The retailer is working on expanding its grocery offerings.  Through a partnership with the health food brand Wild Oats, Wal-Mart will sell organic groceries that are about 25% cheaper than similar products on the market.  "We've been focused on improving our fresh offering for some time now. In his first few months leading Walmart US, Greg Foran has set several urgent agenda items, including fresh," Wal-Mart spokeswoman Deisha Barnett told Business Insider. "Delivering quality fresh produce and meat at affordable prices is critical for our customers and our success as the nation's largest grocer.""We are proud of the efforts we launched in produce last year but know we can always do better. As a veteran retailer with strong experience in fresh, Greg's passion is helping us raise the bar," Barnett said. "At Walmart, high expectations are the key to everything."  Wal-Mart is planning to cut back on store investments and spend more on e-commerce in the face of stagnant same-store sales and falling store traffic in the US. The company cut guidance for 2015, saying that it expected growth of 2% to 3% compared with previous estimates of 3% to 5%.  "There is no excuse for us not to be doing better," Wal-Mart Stores CEO Doug McMillon said during the company's annual meeting with investors last month. "We recognize our situation has changed, and we're responding accordingly."   FREE AppDownload
