We have talked about this on numerous occasions over the last few weeks/months (see linkfest below), but the price action this week in AMZN, FB, LNKD, NFLX, NOW &amp; P convinces us that it’s over.  Some of these stocks may never again see the 2014 highs, and others might not for a very long time. Chart of the Day – YELP: All Bounces Are Not Created Equal MorningWord 4/21/14: Ominous Burrito Reversal Pattern Forming in Netflix? MorningWord 4/17/14: Choppy Seas MorningWord 4/11/14: Different This Time?  MorningWord 4/9/14: Sifting Through the Dotcom Rubble MorningWord 4/4/14: New Highs in $SPX No Cure For This Virus – NOW SINA TWTR MorningWord 1/15/14: Sagging DDDs – XONE, DDD, SSYS MorningWord 12/26/13: Are We There Yet?? Market Tops Usually Preceded By Overzealous M&amp;A Twitter is going to be the next one to watch, as they are set to report Q1 on April 29th after the close. The options market is already implying about a one day move of about 15%, which will likely increase as we get closer considering the stock’s 24% decline on February 5th, when the company reported their first quarter as a public company. It is my sense that all of the issues that investors hated about the company’s user growth (lack there of) and anemic user engagement are likely to be prevalent in the results from Q1. And then the following week, on May 5th, (to trade May 6th) 465 million shares come unlocked for sale from insiders and early investors. The stock popped earlier in the month when someinvestors/employees said they would not sell, but let’s be honest, the IPO came at $26, the stock is $42.63, still up 63% from its issue price. Sure, it’s a far cry from the all time highs near $75 in December, but it still beats a sharp stick in the eye for IPO investors. If the gig is up, those inside these sorts of companies or those early investors in some of these overvalued companies are likely to know before all the suckers who bought them in the greater fools parade of the last couple years. My thesis doesn’t mean that many of these companies won’t continue to dominate their respective businesses. It just means that the bubble like price action in their stock certificates has been pricked, and many of the stocks will see lower lows from here in the near future. Now as regular readers know, I wouldn’t short these stocks with my worst enemy’s money. Why? Cause it’s these sort of stocks that can gap 10-15% in a heartbeat, and that risk is silly. But I do like to define my risk and make a risk/reward bet that fits my thesis. So here is the trade but with one big Caveat. Generally we are not huge fans of pressing shorts that are very oversold (as many of these web 2.0 stocks are) down 20% or 30% in a short time, but we have had some recent success of late, and we think the set up here is attractive in TWTR. We are risking what we are willing to lose. This article originally appeared at Risk Reversal .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
