Bloomberg TVFed Chair Janet Yellen The Federal Reserve has just released a statement detailing its latest decision on monetary policy resulting from the first Federal Open Market Committee meeting under the leadership of Janet Yellen. The FOMC elected to reduce the monthly pace of its quantitative easing program by another $10 billion and scrap the 6.5% unemployment rate threshold that previously characterized its forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates, as was largely expected. It also lowered its GDP and unemployment rate forecasts, but pulled forward its forecasts on the likely timing of rate hikes. The U.S. dollar and yields on U.S. Treasuries are sharply higher in the wake of the release. During the press conference following the release, Yellen defended the FOMC's decision to drop the 6.5% threshold, saying the Committee was watching "many more things" in assessing the health of the labor market. She also said the FOMC was fully committed to its 2% inflation target, and did not want to undershoot it for an extended period of time. "There is only very limited upward drift," said Yellen, referring to Committee members' forecasts for the fed funds rate contained in the FOMC's updated Staff Economic Projections. Yellen downplayed the importance of the "dot chart" in the SEP, saying it should not be viewed as the Committee's primary means of communication with the public. When asked about how much of the recent slowdown in economic activity was due to unseasonally harsh weather, Yellen said it did play a role, and the Committee sees those effects dissipating, but was likely overoptimistic at its January meeting. The Fed's new forward guidance as outlined in the March FOMC statement is as follows: "The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored." When asked for clarification on what "considerable time after the asset purchase program ends" means, Yellen said probably somewhere on the order of six months, depending on conditions at that time. These comments sparked a sell-off in the stock market and sent yields on U.S. Treasuries to their highest levels of the day. FREE AppDownload
