Advisors and retail investors can access GMO’s asset allocation by buying the Wells Fargo Advantage Absolute Return instead of the GMO Benchmark-Free Allocation Fund and the Wells Fargo Advantage Asset Allocation Fund instead of the GMO Global Asset Allocation Fund. The minimum investment for the GMO Funds is $10 million, while the minimum investment for the Wells Fargo Funds is $1,000. I spoke with James on Jan. 28. How do you select the subjects on which you do research? Are there particular publications or information sources that offer good insight or inspirations for the topics you choose? It’s really tough. The inspiration comes from a wide variety of places, many of which are client-related. Often it comes from conversations with clients around their interests – smart beta and risk parity would be good examples. More often, though, I ask myself, “What do I actually think about that issue?” A lot of the time, I respond to the issues and the topics the markets throw up. Other times, it’s more direct. Once or twice I’ll come across something and think, “No, I really don’t agree with that.” Looking for the evidence that I disagree with is always useful, so I spend a reasonable amount of time reading people with whom I definitely do not agree. Jeremy Siegel is a pretty good example of somebody in that camp at the moment, with his views on the inadequacies of the Shiller cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio (CAPE). Then I think about how I might battle with the potential logical flaws are in those arguments. REUTERS/Steve MarcusJeremy SiegelSiegel’s argument, if I understand it correctly, is not with the CAPE methodology. It’s with the underlying data that’s being used. He’s argued that the national income and products account (NIPA) data should be used rather than the S&amp;P data that Shiller has been using, and that if you use the NIPA data you come to different conclusions. What are your thoughts on that? The attacks on the CAPE are kind of odd, right? It hasn’t done a bad job. It works. A large part of me says, “Well, if it’s not broken, why the hell are you trying to fix it?” People say, “Well, valuations haven’t mean-reverted for the last 20 years.” My response is, “No, but returns, frankly, have been very poor for the last 20 years.” So there is no inconsistency between a high valuation and low returns. I think Siegel’s main point is that goodwill accounting misses half of the data. Yes, goodwill accounting has certainly increased the volatility of earnings. But also we had a situation during the crisis, somewhere around March 2009, almost exactly at the bottom, when the accounting authorities suspended FASB rule 157, which was the mark-to-market rule. All of a sudden, financial institutions could lie with impunity. They no longer had to recognize any of the impact of asset deterioration on their earnings. One can make an equal case on the other side that earnings probably recovered too fast because of that suspension of the rule. That may have created a rather weird pattern. Maybe those two patterns offset, and therefore that is one of the reasons you should take a 10-year average, as the CAPE methodology employs. The idea of replacing S&amp;P earnings with NIPA earnings is slightly surreal. The S&amp;P is a relatively small number of stocks, whereas NIPA effectively represents very much the entire economy. So the two constituents are very different. NIPA profits are at extreme highs right now, as are listed-market profits. Basing an evaluation on something that is at an all-time high is almost certainly going to make things look cheaper. To me, this is a strange way of honestly adjusting a valuation measure. I have not yet seen any evidence that the NIPA-adjusted series gives a better return forecast over time than the straight Shiller. That would have to be the hurdle. The burden of proof is on those who think the Shiller model is somehow not useful. How does your research impact the investment process at GMO? It very much depends on the topics. Something like smart beta or risk parity doesn’t have any huge impact on our portfolios, because they’re not things we particularly believe in any way. But I started doing some work on forecasting market returns. This is part of a project I’ve been involved with on profit margins, a topic about which I’ve written extensively. Margins have direct impacts on the forecasts, and ultimately those forecasts are what drive our portfolios. In early 2010 you published a white paper titled What Goes up Must Come Down, and in it you observed that the U.S. profit margins were at record highs and you are on the lookout for sound arguments as to why GMO might be wrong in its assumption of margin reversion. Do you have any additional thoughts at this point on why profit margins have remained so high? The macroeconomic framework that we used in that document, the Kalecki equation, still holds true. As I wrote in that paper, I wasn’t talking about the next 12 or even 24 months, but rather that margins would eventually come under pressure principally because governments were likely to end up tightening their fiscal belt, rightly or wrongly. They tend to do that over time. That was likely to drag down profits, and that remains the major source of concern. It probably won’t be this year in the U.S., because the budget deal that has been proposed has removed some of the sequestration pressure, though not all of it. But the pressure picks up again in 2016 and 2017. So, certainly within the time horizon of our forecast we would expect to have mean reversion of profit margins as our base case. You hear a lot of stories about low tax rates, low interest rates, globalization and sector differences. All of these are taken into account by the Kalecki equation. Low tax rates are a good example. People point out that corporate tax rates have never been lower, and that accounts for high profit margins. There’s an element of truth to that, but it’s actually exactly what the Kalecki equation says, because those low tax rates in the corporate sector imply that the government needs to run a greater deficit to maintain the same level of government spending. Sector differences are another one we come across. In the 1970s, we had a very different industrial composition in the market than the one we find today. But the reality is, that doesn’t account for anywhere near as much as the margin expansion as one imagines. If you applied the 1970s sector weightings to today, you would still get very, very high profit margins. Only about a percent of the profit margins can be explained by sector shifts over the intervening time period. None of those stories hold water. The most likely path is towards mean reversion over the next seven years. What about low interest rates? Have you looked at that in the context of the Kalecki equation? Low interest rates are another pretty good example of the framework, because ultimately those interest rates would have to be paid to somebody. It’s generally the household sector that benefits from higher interest rates. What that really means is that household savings have to be altered, because household income is less than it would be if you had high interest rates. The household-savings element of the Kalecki equation is where low interest-rate effect shows up. I haven’t been able to find an explanation that isn’t assumed within the Kalecki equation. I describe it as one of Tolkien’s rings. In the beginning of The Lord of the Rings, there’s a poem about having one ring that in the darkness finds them all, and to me, that is the real essence of the Kalecki equation. FREE AppDownload
