REUTERSJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has the roundup: Good Morning!  US Futures are jumping higher, led by a 50bp pop in the Russell as the GOP picks up at least 7 (possibly 9) in the Senate; picks up at least 13 in the House (Largest GOP majority since Truman); and several statehouses (We have a Republican Gov in MD - 2nd time in 40 years).  Obama will be speaking today - and according to reports will strike a tone of “compromise.”   Market impact from elections could be felt in:  Pipelines and companies levered to getting Oil from Alberta, Oil / Natty shipping companies that may benefit from US exports, and US refiners that will suffer – Shelby could be positive for Fannie and Freddie, as well as Mortgage Insurers, but he is Anti-Fed – and Medical Device plays will look to repeal of the medical device tax. Overseas, the DAX is adding 1.3% in very light volume, and US and German Yields despite worsening headlines from Russia/Ukraine.  Russia moved a step closer to free floating their Ruble to “shake out” speculators – Ruble collapsed again – Russia Equities (RSX) holding a bid, however.   Over in Asia, the Nikkei added 40bp to its recent 6% surge as BOJ’s Kuroda reinforced his QE – While Hang Seng fell again, 3rd day in a row, and China lost 50bp as HSBC Services PMI came in at 4M lows.   Aussie lost small, despite continued weakness in resource stocks.    Kuroda’s comments slammed the Yen, which rests at 114.75 against the Dollar – and weak German PMI hit the Euro under 1.25, spiking the DXY to 4Y+ peaks, a big headwind for commodities.  That said, we are seeing stability in the Crude Complex, with US WTI unchanged despite the $ as Oil Export dreams accelerate, hitting Brent for 50bp.   Natty gas is jumping another 2.8% (Exports + Cold + Crowded Short), while Precious metals are getting gappy lower – Silver off 4.5% and Gold 2.5% - Weaker Growth + Lower China Physical buying weighs.  Grains &amp; Beans?  They still hate ‘em. Aside from the aforementioned, keep an eye on the Builders – ITB had 9 closes just above that 200dma, if it breaks she’ll retreat quick from the high end of the range – Watch the divergence in the Trannies, with Airlines jumping (Lower Oil, No ebola, Good PRASM), while the Rails see profittaking (Lower Oil demand = Lower Oil moving by rail) – Other Scheduled Catalysts include ADP Employment Change at 8:30, Treasury's quarterly refunding announcement at 9, Fed's Kocherlakota Speaks at 9:15, while Fed's Lacker Speaks at 9:30 - Markit US Services PMI at 9:45, and at 10 we get Online Help Wanted Index, ISM Non-Manf, and speak from Fed's Rosengren.   10:30 we get Oil Inventories, and after the closing bell - Bernanke Speaks at an Investor Conference in Denver - Finally, if you are in downtown Annapolis tonight, come join me for a birthday beer at McGarvey’s – I’ll be buying. FREE AppDownload
