Lucy Nicholson/ReutersThe Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, is wreaking havoc with our view of the American economy. This year, every revision of gross domestic product – our measure of GDP – has provided a new read on what Obamacare is doing for the economy. Initially, the health insurance program appeared to give an enormous boost to healthcare spending in the US, indicating that Americans were rushing in droves to sign up. Most recently, US healthcare spending for the first quarter of 2014 went from unbelievably strong to unbelievably weak. "The near-record setting 9.9% increase in health spending shown in the advance Q1 report has been revised to a 1.4% decline," Goldman Sachs analysts summed up in a report today. The downward revision in itself was not a surprise to most analysts. The size was. "The revision to Q1 was even larger than we expected," admitted Goldman Sachs analysts. Spending on health services has been a bit of a roller coaster over the last several months. The report also found that personal income and spending data for April and May show "nearly flat real growth in health spending". There might be a few reasons for this back and forth in healthcare spending, says Goldman. 1. Hoping to avoid insurance disruptions related to Affordable Care Act, some Americans probably scheduled their elective and less urgent procedures in the last few months of 2013. 2. With patients switching to new insurance plans – more insurance disruption – payments to healthcare providers might have been delayed. As a result, they might be counted among healthcare spending in the second quarter. 3. Timing. The rolling deadlines for Obamacare kept rolling past the traditional financial cutoffs for measuring economic activity. "Many enrolees waited until the 31 March enrollment deadline, which meant in most cases they began to receive benefits only in April or even May," notes Goldman. The healthcare.gov did see a surge of visits and sign-ups in the weeks leading up to the enrolment deadline. In fact, about 900,000 additional enrolees signed up for a plan in the first two weeks of April after they had trouble signing-up by the original 31 March deadline. 4. As always, blame the weather. In this case, the culprit may be "a milder than usual flu season". If you didn't get sick, maybe you hurt the economy by spending less on healthcare. 5. Personal spending. "It is possible that the difference is due to other private-sector forces (eg employer-sponsored insurance or out-of-pocket spending) that are harder to observe on a month-to-month basis," explains the Goldman report. As number of the health plans sold through the Affordable Care Act exchanged came with high deductibles that the consumers have to meet before their plans kick in, out-of-pocket spending could definitely play a role. Especially, since in the beginning of 2014, both doctor and hospital spending were running at more than twice their pre-Obamacare trend, according to Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. So what's next? More revisions. "[T]he estimates could simply be revised higher once the Quarterly Service Survey data for [the second quarter of the year] becomes available in September," says Goldman. Quarterly Service Survey provides estimates of revenue and expenses for select industries, one of which is healthcare. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
