QQ.com by TencentAlibaba's headquarters looked like the NYSE for its huge IPO party.September 19, 2014 will go down in history as a great day for the market, trading, and getting rich. That night Alibaba Group employees and Tencent Tech got together at Alibaba's headquarters, “Taobao City," for a once-in-a-lifetime sleepless night. On the other side of the world, at the New York Stock Exchange, Alibaba's shares opened trading 36.3% above IPO pricing. That opening price meant Alibaba's market cap was $228.2 billion, more than Facebook, IBM, Oracle, and Amazon; just behind tech and Internet giants Apple, Google, and Microsoft. The IPO turned Alibaba Executive Chairman, Jack Ma, into a Chinese yuan trillionaire, with a net worth of over $20 billion. Many of the other employees at the party held stock in the company, and also came out winners. Ma was joined at the stock exchange by kung fu star, Jet Lee, as well as Youku Tudou chairman, Victor Koo, Evergrande Real Estate Group chairman, Xu Jiayin, founder and president of Giant Interactive, Shi Yuzhu, and president and CEO of Sina, Charles Chao. After ringing the bell, Ma sent a text to all Alibaba employees saying, “The IPO is going to be a winner.” QQ.com by TencentAlibaba employees celebrated the IPO in Hangzhou.The light rain falling on Hangzhou from five o'clock on through the night didn't seem to spoil the mood of Alibaba employees one bit. Their excitement seemed to rise just as their company's stock price did on the other side of the ocean. Of course the reason for that was all the fortunes being made. Sources indicate that Alibaba Group offers stock options to any employee who has been with the company for three years or more. That includes over half of their 20,000 employees. The value of shares held by employees who exercised stock options is estimated to exceed $46 billion. Over a thousand are expected to become millionaires.  Before the official opening, Ma was joined by vice chairman, Joseph Tsai, and CEO Jonathan Lu at the New York Stock Exchange where he gave a speech via video-link to Alibaba employees in Hangzhou, and hundreds of Chinese media outlets eager to witness every minute of the IPO. Outside of the hall in Taobao City where employees had gathered to hear the speech, a replica of the outside of the New York Stock Exchange had been built for employees to take photos with. A giant statue of a golden bull stood in front of it perfectly expressing the bullish mood of the market that day. A Marriage Proposal at Alibaba Headquarters Taobao City was still packed at midnight. One Alibaba employee chose that day to propose marriage, another celebrated a birthday. All around people were singing, dancing, and watching the fireworks. This writers' friends' Weibo (Chinese microblogging platform similar to Twitter) feeds were full of excited posts about the IPO made by giddy Alibaba employees. QQ.com by TencentA man proposed in the middle of all the action.It was around 11:50 at night in China when Alibaba's stock started trading and the price of stocks immediately shot up. It may have been a mad rush in New York but in Taobao City the mood was euphoric. Employees kept reporting the stock price over the PA system. The ringing of the bell was met with cheers and applause. Everyone seemed to be recording the moment on their phones. Of course there are two sides to every coin, and at this IPO banquet alongside the people rejoicing were some who were worried. One employee who had been with the company a little over six months told Tencent Tech that as someone new to the company, none of the wealth being celebrated at the party would affect him very much. However, with a few people in the company becoming so much richer, housing prices and other living costs in the surrounding area were bound to rise. That would raise his expenses and put additional pressure on him. Another employee, who had been playing the stock market, looked even more dejected. The week before, she had bought China concepts stocks (China concepts stock refers to the stock of a company whose assets or earnings have significant activities in China.) hoping that Alibaba's IPO would stimulate the market and raise the value of her investment. On the contrary, she ended up losing a lot of money on the day of Alibaba's IPO, when China concepts stocks fell nearly across the board. It is also worth noting what former CEO of Alibaba's B2B company, David Wei, had to say on Weibo. “A string of new records are about to be set. This is as exciting as having a new baby. It's a page in the history of China and the Internet, and I consider myself fortunate to have been a part of two thirds of the 15 years that lead up to this. I have no regrets in this life! Seeing Joseph Tsai looking dapper in those photos tonight really made me want to go out in my best suit again.”  David Wei was just the most famous of the many former Alibaba members of staff to share their feelings online. One senior manager at Alibaba said “Going public is a necessary step that a company must take. It's not the final victory. Everything still needs to be handled calmly. After the IPO, senior managers and employees usually have to wait for the end of the IPO lock-up period, which could last months or even years, before they are allowed to sell their shares. You don't really see any of that wealth until after stock-splitting and taxes.” QQ.com by TencentThere were even fireworks at the party. QQ.com by TencentWhile in New York, Jack Ma texted all Alibaba employees: "The IPO is going to be a winner." QQ.com by TencentThe history of Alibaba, including drawings of its different headquarters from the past. QQ.com by Tencentparty goers watched a live feed of the IPO at the NYSE. QQ.com by Tencent This article was originally published by QQ.com. Translated by Tyler Olson. FREE AppDownload
