REUTERS/Sue OgrockiHmm...The commentary is pouring in from Wall Street strategists and economists about today's release of the December jobs report, which estimated that only 74,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls last month — well below the consensus prediction of 197,000. Here is what they are saying: Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank: "One of the most confusing employment reports in quite a while. Most of the report is very weak, with the notable exception of the most important single variable, the unemployment rate. It does seem like weather influence in the report, most obvious in the fall in construction, that is likely representative of negative weather effects elsewhere. Most sector payrolls were weak, with the exception of retail trade — that bodes well for the strength of the consumer. The data will make both policymakers and the market take a pause for thought. Since bond bears were obviously dominant, it is no surprise to see a large positive Treasury bond response. However, in most markets I would expect limited follow-through from here, since it is extremely doubtful that the 87,000 private payrolls number is anywhere close to representing the underlying growth picture, while the 6.7% has again been achieved in the main by a slide in the participation rate and probably overstates strength. Nonetheless, in coming months, it is the faster unemployment rate downward trend that is likely to be sustained, much more than weak payroll growth." Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs: Even taking into account the effects of weather, Hatzius calls the report "still a fairly sizable disappointment," and the report is "definitely weaker beyond that factor," according to Bloomberg. Hatzius also says that because the decline in labor force participation rate accounts for the entire decline in the unemployment rate, it shows how "relatively poor" an indicator of labor market conditions the headline unemployment rate actually is. David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital: "A weak gain of course, with the oddity of the drop in the unemployment rate a function of a drop in labor participation, so people leaving labor force, and so not a strong sign. The Fed recognizes this, and while 6.5% might be the threshold idea, we can offer that as the drop is due to participation, the Fed will offer a lower threshold de facto. Weather clearly had an impact, with 273,000 out due to weather, really twice the norm, and so seasonals are a function here. Still, drop in work week and soft wage gains are there. Bottom line — taper is a bit up in air, but we think they will taper at a soft level (no more than $10 billion) as weather is such a factor. Our odds have shaved down from near 100% to more like 70%, however. They won't accelerate, of course. Note market bid but inhibited by the last FOMC day's closing levels (our target you may recall)." Ted Wieseman, economist at Morgan Stanley: "Weather was an important contributor to the softness in December payroll job growth, but not enough to explain all of the softness. Construction payrolls fell 16,000, which we estimate is consistent with about a 30,000 weather drag (note that ADP, which has trouble with short-term disruptions, badly missed this, forecasting a 48,000 construction job gain). Leisure and hospitality, which includes some weather-sensitive outdoor areas, rose a sluggish 9,000, reflecting perhaps a 10,000 weather drag. Other weather impacts in less directly impacted areas may have brought the overall weather drag to 50,000 to 75,000. There was major confusion in the market after the report in interpreting the BLS' count of people not at work because of bad weather. This is a measure in the household survey that is indicative — and only indicative — of weather impacts on the report. 273,000 people with jobs didn't work in the December survey week because of the weather. Note that THESE PEOPLE HAD JOBS. So obviously this household survey gauge can't just be subtracted from the establishment payroll count. Also, that number is always high in December: 273,000 compared with a 20-year average of 135,000. Our past work has indicated that amount of elevation versus average in this HOUSEHOLD SURVEY gauge of PEOPLE WHO HAD JOBS is consistent with roughly a 50,000 to 75,000 weather drag on ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY growth in NET NEW JOBS."  Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist at Barclays: "Adverse weather can affect both employment and hours, as severe weather can both reduce hours worked during the pay period and prevent workers from showing up to work and receiving pay. Average weekly hours did fall to 34.4 from 34.5 during the week, although hours have been bouncing between 34.4 and 34.5 hours per week for some time. According to the BLS, employees who are not at work and without pay during the pay period would not be counted on payrolls. The BLS estimates that slightly more than 20 percent of all employees in the payroll survey sample have weekly pay periods; therefore, it is conceivable that adverse weather could cause a decline in payroll employment if these workers were unable to work and did not receive pay during the survey period. Employees who receive pay for any part of the pay period would be counted on payrolls. In the household survey, however, persons who miss work for weather-related reasons are counted as employed whether or not they are paid. The 143,000 gain in household employment, which should be devoid of adverse weather-related distortions, is more consistent with the modest payroll growth we were expecting. We also do not find it plausible that adverse weather accounted for the decline in the participation rate to 62.8% from 63.0% in November. To be counted as in the labor force, one needs to be employed or have looked for work during the four weeks preceding the survey week. Therefore, it is unlikely that weather would significantly disrupt estimates of the size of the labor force in the same way it might for workers with weekly pay periods." Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ: "Net net, it is a complicated report today. It is likely to be read as disappointing for Fed policymakers, but our first look at the data is to take the three-tenths drop in unemployment as news that the labor market is still moving forward. We are not sure the household survey is back to normal from what looked to be federal government shutdown distortions a couple of months back. There are big revisions coming to both payroll jobs and the unemployment rate in the next report on February 7, so let’s not panic and all rush to the exits on the fear the economy is slowing. All eyes are on the Fed, and if they don’t taper $10 billion on January 29, then this will be a sign they are once again concerned about the economic outlook. Stay tuned. It may be better than you think, but today’s report is mixed on the outlook." Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics: "The payroll numbers are the wildest of wild cards in recent memory and make no sense in the context of all the other labor market data. Weather effects may account for some or even all the shortfall, with the household survey reporting the the biggest number of people unable to work due to the weather in December since 1977, but note this number — 273,000 — is not seasonally adjusted and cannot just be added to payrolls to derive an ex-weather payroll number. Taking into account the upward revisions we think payroll growth is now trending at more than 200,000 per month and we have to expect a big catch-up number for January. The drop in the unemployment rate reflects a modest 143,000 rise in household employment and a 347,000 plunge in the labor force, so participation fell 0.2 percentage points to a new low of 62.8%. On a month-on-month basis, these data are not to be taken seriously but the drop in headline unemployment, if sustained, will further embolden hawks to push for faster tapering, fearing rising wage pressure. So far, the wage data show no sign of movement, but we do expect a clear acceleration over the course of the year. Note the annual household survey revisions were trivially small. Bottom line: The Fed will ignore the wild payroll number and taper again on January 29." Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities: "Despite the disappointing performance in December, the U.S. economy recorded a very robust 2.2 million jobs gain in 2013, adding to a similar increase the year before, and with other indicators of economic health posting to continued upside momentum in activity, we view this report as more an anomaly in an otherwise uptrend in employment activity. In fact, while we believe that the Fed will be more cautious going forward on their tapering agenda, they are unlikely to be dissuaded from ending the QE3 program this year." Emad Mostaque, strategist at NOAH Securities: "Today’s weak payroll numbers in the U.S. (74,000 vs 197,000 expected) were a surprise (although margin of error is +/- 100,000!), but the more pertinent data point in my opinion was a fall in the U3 unemployment rate from 7% to 6.7% — despite this weak payroll number — driven entirely by a fall in the labor force participation rate from 63% to 62.8%. This drop in the labor force participation rate was, as noted last month, likely pushed by expiration of extended unemployment benefits in December and we should see the rate continuing to fall in January, with payrolls feeling the pressure from it being too cold to hire people in the states at the moment (last month's payrolls impacted by drop in seasonal footfall in retail). However, January should mark what is likely to be a low in the labor force participation rate, which may well then stabilise and rise, causing huge headwinds to headline U3 figures approaching anywhere near what the Fed needs to hike rates." Adrian Miller, director of fixed income strategy at GMP Securities: "Now the head-scratching report is being attributed to weather, at least we are, as the Labor Department reported 273,000 people could not get to work in December due to weather, the largest since 1977. So, while the bond market’s rally following a weak report is holding, at least temporarily, equity futures seem to have gotten it right in that an initial sell-off has almost reversed. As it relates to using this data as an input in figuring out the Fed’s next move, we would advise throwing the report out as the results deviate significantly from other jobs-related data, (ADP, weekly claims and ISM employment component) that suggest a labor market that is building momentum. Also, while we maintain the labor market is indeed improving, as evidenced by the sizable upside revision to November’s NFP data and other anecdotal evidence, there remain many structural issues that need to be addressed. Also, until we receive data that is appreciably stronger than we have seen of late and with throwing out the December NFP report, we expect the Fed to maintain its $10 billion per meeting cut in asset purchases."  Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics: "We suspect that the unexpectedly weak 74,000 gain in nonfarm payrolls in December is largely explained by the unseasonably severe winter weather last month. Under those circumstances, we still expect the Fed to reduce its monthly asset purchases by a further $10 billion at the upcoming FOMC meeting later this month, particularly with the unemployment rate dropping to a five-year low of 6.7%." Andrew Wilkinson, chief market analyst at Interactive Brokers: "Companies added a mere 74,000 to payrolls to conclude the year and by less than half its expected gain of 195,000. That number was looking decidedly low following the earlier ADP report showing 238,000 jobs were added last month. Given the discrepancy, the easy option is to blame the weather. The BLS report today highlighted that adverse weather conditions had kept the most people at home since 1977 (more than one quarter of a million). It feels increasingly at odds with reality to point to the silver lining of a declining unemployment rate when job growth stalls as was the case in December. The headline rate slid by 0.3% as it did in November to 6.7%. But before sounding the warning bells over an economy falling off the cliff at year end, look at the chart of retail employment. Some 55,000 of the net 74,000 came from retail — a sign that retailers are finally accepting that they need bodies on the shop floor and in warehouses and perhaps that they are warming to future prospects. Jobs were lost in government (-13,000), healthcare (-6,000), IT services (-12,000) and construction (-16,000 — owing to cold weather and at odds with ADP data) in December." FREE AppDownload
