 Shake Shack just filed to go public, which means the company will get a big cash infusion. The "better burger" chain's store and sales growth so far have been impressive. Revenues have reached $82 million in the past decade.  Still, Shake Shack has only 63 locations worldwide, many fewer than competitors such as Five Guys. The IPO funding could bring Shake Shack closer to ubiquity. Here are some opportunities for growth that the restaurant chain listed in its SEC filing. Shake Shack is still relatively small in the US, with 36 restaurants in 10 states.  The company believes that American customers, who have started going crazy for "better burger" chains, are the biggest opportunity for expansion.  Shake Shack will start expanding in the US in 2015.  Executives believe the domestic restaurant count could grow to at least 450 locations.  Despite being a relatively small chain, the company believes it has "outsize" brand awareness. In other words, a lot of people know what Shake Shack is relative to the small number of locations. The company's prospectus says it has been featured in the motion picture "Something Borrowed" and on HBO's "The Newsroom." All the hype is expected to pay off.  Excitement around the brand could help new locations thrive, and Shake Shack likely won't have to work hard to get customers.  Shake Shack is trying out a new strategy to drive sales growth at existing locations. It includes offering seasonal and regional items, such as milkshakes themed for a certain part of the country.  Shake Shack also plans to emphasize using fresh ingredients for its core burgers. Shake Shack is already popular abroad, with locations in eight countries including Dubai and the UK.  The company sees an opportunity to expand abroad further.  Markets like the Middle East and Asia are seen as being especially lucrative.  "This strategy historically has been a low-cost, high-return method of growing our brand awareness and provides an increasing source of cash flow," the company said in its filing.    FREE AppDownload
