Ilya Naymushin/Reuters/Amanda Macias/Business InsiderAn artwork depicting a portrait of Russian President Vladimir Putin based on a layer of U.S. dollars and Russian roubles.The Russian central bank raised interest rates to 17% in an attempt to prevent the rouble’s collapse. But the dramatic move failed to stem the decline, with the currency hitting new all-time lows against the dollar. Russia’s central bank has taken the drastic step of raising its main interest rate to 17%, a rise of 6.5 percentage points. The announcement – made around 1am local time – is a desperate attempt to restore confidence in the rouble, which has almost halved in value against the dollar in six months. Last week, the central bank raised rates by 1%, but this failed to calm jitters about an economy that is suffering from falling oil prices and western sanctions. No. A strong early rally in the value of the rouble soon went into reverse, sending the currency to an all-time low against the dollar of $66.59. The rouble is worth 3.6% less since the central bank’s emergency rate rise. Only bad ones. The central bank can continue to defend the rouble, by spending its foreign exchange reserves to support the currency. Although Russia sits on some of the largest foreign exchange reserves in the world because of its oil and gas earnings, its cash pile is shrinking fast. In 2014, it spent $80bn supporting the rouble, around one-fifth of the value of its reserves. The bank could raise rates again, but this would be painful for borrowers, worsening the country’s economic slowdown. The other option is currency controls – stopping people from taking money out of the country. But this could turn a crisis into a full-blown panic. It’s bad - Timothy Ash at Standard Bank says Russian authorities now have “a full-blown rouble crisis on their hands”. The dread scenario for Russian policymakers is a re-run of the 1998 financial crisis, a currency panic that plunged Russia into a deep and painful recession, sending shockwaves through financial markets around the world. In August of that year, fears of a rouble devaluation led to the collapse of Russia’s stock, bond and currency markets. The central bank unveiled emergency measures, but were unable to beat the markets. The rouble lost three-quarters of its value in three weeks. The bank eventually hiked rates to 100% and Russia defaulted on its debts. The following year inflation spiked at 85% and people were demonstrating in the streets about high food prices. Partly, but sanctions are only part of the story. Russia’s central bank governor, Elvira Nabiullina, on Tuesday blamed falling oil prices and western sanctions for the pressure on the currency. Oil prices have fallen below $60 a barrel, a huge problem for Russia, where oil and gas revenues finance more than half of the state budget. Russian authorities were banking on oil prices of $100 per barrel in 2015 to balance the books and are forecasting a sharp recession if prices remain at current levels. At the same time Russian banks are frozen out of western capital markets, as a result of EU and US sanctions over Russia’s actions in Ukraine. As a result, banks must turn to the central bank to help them refinance their debts, further straining resources. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
