REUTERS/Russell CheyneThe massed pipe bands play at the annual Braemar Highland Gathering in Braemar, Scotland September 6, 2014. In the U.S., all eyes will be focused on the Federal Reserve as it holds its Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday. Not much is expected in terms of policy shifts. But with U.S. economic activity picking up, everyone will be parsing the Fed's words for clues regarding the exact timing of interest rate hikes. Meanwhile, Scotland has attracted the attention of the world. On September 18, Scots will vote "yes" or "no" to Scottish independence from the U.K. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Deutsche Bank's David Bianco and Wells Fargo's Gina Martin Adams came into 2014 betting the S&amp;P 500 would end the year at 1,850. Those calls made them tied for most bearish strategist on Wall Street. In the past week, both pulled the plug on their calls. Here's Bianco, who now sees the S&amp;P at 2,050 by year end and 2,150 in 2015: "We still expect a long lasting economic expansion of moderate growth, which should rival the US record of 10 years with S&amp;P EPS growth averaging 6% until the next recession, on 5% sales growth, flat margins, 1% share shrink. Despite entering the latter years of a typical expansion and high margins vs. history, we now think the trailing S&amp;P PE should average 17 vs. 16 until elevated recession risk returns." Here's Adams, who sees the S&amp;P at 2,100 12 months from now: "Our earnings growth estimates continue to improve given improving domestic economic data and the Fed continues to signal they will tread very carefully in their attempt to unwind accommodative policy... Tactically, we continue to believe that equity investors should be on guard for a more challenging investment climate in the near term, as monetary policy certainty fades to uncertainty this autumn... In sum, we think it wise for investors to remain relatively selective toward stocks in the short term, but buy any policy-related weakness that develops over the next few quarters." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
