REUTERS/Carlos BarriaHong Kong's protesters aren't backing down.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: It Looks Like A Showdown Is Coming In Hong Kong. The Hong Kong government, backed by Beijing, is ordering protesters to end their blockade of the city center, but protesters are still demanding that Hong Kong's leader, Leung Chun-ying, step down by the end of Thursday.  A Eurozone Monetary Policy Decision Is Coming. The ECB will publish its monetary policy statement at 7:45 a.m. ET. That will be followed by ECB President Mario Draghi’s news conference at 8:30 a.m. Economists expect no change in the already low interest rates. However, we should get details regarding the ECB's other efforts to stimulate the economy. Argentina’s Central Bank Chief Is Out. Carlos Fabrega, the head of Argentina’s central bank, has quit. He took a different view on the country’s struggle with the hedge funds holding out on a bond haircut deal, favoring negotiations. Major European Markets Are Down. France’s CAC 40 is down 0.33%, Germany’s DAX is down 0.14%, and the UK’s FTSE 100 is down 0.36%. Asian markets had a bad night, with the Hang Seng closing down 1.28% and the Nikkei dropping 2.61%. Oil Prices Are Plunging Again. Oil is showing a significant drop in price for the third day in a row, with the price per barrel now solidly below $90. SPONSORED BY Capco What will the finance industry look like in the years to come? Find out how the financial supply chain is reshaping the "new bank" at the 2014 Banking Reloaded Conference on October 29. Register today to join others in learning about the future of banking. The Bank Of England Wants New Powers To Curb The Housing Market. The central bank wants new powers to curb lending but approved the controversial Help to Buy scheme of mortgage guarantees.  Toyota Isn't Worried About Russia. Despite the slump in demand for car sales in Russia as the economy slows, Toyota is sticking to its target of increasing sales to a million vehicles in Europe next year. Bank Of America’s Chief Executive Is Now Its Chairman, Too. Brian Moynihan was named as Charles Holliday’s successor Wednesday evening. PIMCO Recorded Massive Outflows. The fund saw $23.5 billion in outflows from its flagship Total Return Fund in September, the 17th straight month in which the fund has shrunk, with the largest loss occurring on the day of Bill Gross' resignation from the firm.   Two Massive French Car-Makers Want Faster Reforms. According to the Financial Times, both Peugeot Citroen and Renault want President Francois Hollande to hurry up with his labor market reforms. FREE AppDownload
