First a word on exactly what the Federal Reserve custody program is. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York offers a range of services to some 250 central banks, governments, and official international institutions. These include payments services, investment services, and custody and safekeeping services. Most familiar to the public is the large volume of gold belonging to foreign central banks and governments held in a large vault carved out of bedrock in the basement of the bank. But it is US Treasury and agency securities that make up the largest volume of assets held in custody, which as of March 13 totaled $3.3 trillion. The number that received attention was the reported decline of in those securities. We don’t know who owns those securities.  Clearly the NY Fed does but secrecy prevents disclosure of that information. What is interesting is that custodial holdings do vary day by day and on a weekly average basis.  To put the $104 billion decline in perspective, the end-of -week to end-of-week change (the Fed computes end-of-week on Wednesdays) has typically been less than plus or minus $20 billion the past year or so.  However, despite the large decline this past week, the average custodial holdings are down only $17 billion from their level on March 13, 2013.  However, marketable Treasury holdings are down $34 billion over that same period, according to the Federal Reserve’s H.1. release. We do know that these weren’t the personal holdings of President Putin, as some have suggested, since custodial accounts are maintained only in the names of government entities. We do have some information as to who the holders of US Treasuries are. The most recent data come from the Treasury’s International Capital (TIC) data report. Total foreign holdings of US Treasury debt as of the end of December 2013 were about $5.8 trillion, of which $2.4 trillion is owned by China and Japan. The next largest owners were Caribbean Banking Centers at $290 billion. Russia was the 11th largest owner at $139 billion. About 58% of these foreign government securities holdings were in custody accounts at the New York Fed. We won’t know for sure from public data whether the custodial securities that were removed were Russian until new data are released by the US Treasury. We will need to compare the February and March data, which won’t be released for another couple of months. This is one time when being inside the New York Fed would really be interesting. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
