 The unemployment rate has fallen sharply from its recessionary peak, however, a large portion of this reflects a decline in the participation rate. In fact, many pundits (including several Fed officials) are completely dismissing the drop in the traditional U3 unemployment rate as a true barometer of labour market tightness (I think that is a mistake, by the way).   The participation rate has fallen from pre-recession levels of 65% to 63% in February as record numbers of Americans have left the workforce — it hasn’t been this low since the late 1970s. The rise in the number of people leaving the labour force entirely is running about double the pace of new job creation. Over 90 million Americans now reside outside the traditional borders of the labour market. Five years ago, the number was closer to 80 million. This indeed is a mystery and a huge socio-economic phenomenon.   Interestingly, of the folks who have decided to leave the workforce — by definition are not looking for work actively — and do not want a job are down more than 10% from year-ago levels. Moreover, those who don’t want a job at all have seen a visible uptrend. It would be interesting to see how they are getting by (Uncle Jack’s generosity? The underground/barter economy? The lottery?).  While many point to the impact of discouraged workers on the falloff in the participation rate, this is not the only story currently playing out. The number of people who left the labour force and claim they did so without being discouraged is running far above historical norms. One example are people who have headed to school — accounting for 7% of the overall decrease in labour force participation over the past three years (assuming they intend on graduating with a degree, it will be sometime before they resurface into the classic job search — in other words, waiting for the participation rate to rise again and thwart the decline in the unemployment rate will be akin to waiting for Godot).  David Rosenberg The social safety net is supporting a record number of Americans. In fact, the Cato Institute published a controversial study last summer, concluding that in 39 states, those individuals astute enough to tap the myriad of government benefit programs at all levels got paid at least as much as an administrative assistant (in 11 states, as much as a school teacher)! Now not everyone is lazy, but at the margin, when governments create disincentives to work, some will choose not to. From 2010 to 2013, the data show that individuals leaving the labour force due to disability accounted for an unprecedented 28% of the overall tally — this compares to 18% who were classified as “disabled” from 2007 to 2010.  FREE AppDownload
