REUTERS/Ralph Orlowski ECB President Mario Draghi during the bank's monthly news conference in Frankfurt on Aug. 7. 1. Russian President Vladimir Putin laid out a seven-point plan for a permanent cease-fire in eastern Ukraine to which Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatseniuk responded: "The real plan of Putin is to destroy Ukraine and to restore the Soviet Union." 2. David Cameron and Barack Obama have co-authored a powerful piece in The Times that reaffirms the importance of NATO in battling extremist militant groups. They write: "If terrorists think we will weaken in the face of their threats they could not be more wrong. Countries like Britain and America will not be cowed by barbaric killers." 3. The European Central Bank will make a monetary policy announcement later Thursday.  4. International leaders will converge at a NATO summit meeting in Wales on Friday to discuss the crisis in Ukraine.  5.  Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is retaking leadership of Bloomberg LP, the news company he founded in 1981.  6. The United Nations said that at least $600 million is needed to bring the Ebola outbreak in West Africa under control as the death toll has climbed to over 1,900.  7. Goldman Sachs predicts that "the U.K. could fall into a eurozone-style crisis if Scotland votes for independence later this month," The Telegraph reported.  8. Apple shares tanked after an analyst note advised investors to sell their shares, which comes ahead of Tuesday's iPhone 6 release.  9. In a groundbreaking experiment, researchers have demonstrated the first brain-to-brain communication in humans, despite a distance of 5,000 miles between the subjects.  10. The U.S. Justice Department has launched a civil rights investigation into the Ferguson Police Department in Missouri after an officer shot and killed an unarmed black teenager, sparking violent riots.  And finally... The Toronto film festival starts on Thursday. The two-week event will feature more than 250 films from 70 countries.  FREE AppDownload
