Yossi Zamir/ReutersSteve Averbach, one of the plaintiffs listed in the civil suit against Arab Bank, was paralyzed in after a suicide bomber detonated his weapon on this bus in Jerusalem on May 18, 2003.A long-awaited trial starts Monday, in which U.S. victims of Hamas and their families are suing a massive Middle Eastern bank for allegedly funneling money to family members of terrorist suicide bombers. The decade-old case alleges the Jordanian Arab Bank helped funnel "martyr payments" to the relatives of terrorists through its New York branch during the second Palestinian Intifada between 2000-2005 (a period of intense fighting between Israel and Palestine that reportedly cost 4,000 lives). The high-profile suit will be the first-ever civil trial involving terror financing, according to Osen Law, the firm representing the plaintiffs. The Supreme Court rejected the bank's petition for it to hear the case in June, paving the way for the controversial case to go to trial in Brooklyn federal court this week. The suit claims Arab Bank helped funnel money from insurance benefits provided by the Saudi Committee, a group that supported the Intifada, to the families of Palestinian terrorists who had become "martyrs" or been injured or captured by Israeli forces.  This insurance "is ultimately designed to provide substantial material support to Palestinian terrorist organizations and to provide a meaningful incentive both to prospective recruits and to individuals contemplating the commission of independent acts of violence in the name of the 'popular resistance," according to the complaint. The complaint list five terrorist attacks in which Arab Bank allegedly funneled money to terrorists' families.  One case involves John Linde Jr., who was killed along with two other security officers by an IED in northern Gaza as they were escorting U.S. diplomats to interview Palestinian candidates for Fulbright Scholarships in October 2003.  In another case, Tehilla Nathansen, just 3 years old, was killed while sitting on her mother's lap on the No. 2 bus in Jerusalem in August of 2003. In another attack on a child, Jacob Mandell, an 8th-grader, was stoned to death, along with another friend, by Palestinians while he was hiking in May of 2001. The suit claims Arab Bank has violated Section 2339B of Title 18 of the U.S. Code, which makes it illegal for an entity within the U.S. to provide material support or resources to designated foreign terrorist organizations. Originally filed in 2004, the suit is only now reaching trial because Arab Bank did everything they could to withhold information from the plaintiffs, lead attorney Gary Osen of Osen LLC told Business Insider. "They've done everything in their power to deny us the opportunity to have a full record and to delay the proceedings for as long as they could," Osen said. If Arab Bank is found liable, a jury will determine the amount in damages the plaintiffs will receive. "We can't obviously predict what impact, if any, the proceeding or trial could have one way or the other, but if liability is found, we hope it will impact the way foreign financial institutions conduct their risk management in the area of terror financing," Osen said. Although some have speculated that Arab Bank will try and settle this case out of court, Osen said he "fully expects this trial to start Monday." Arab Bank contends that, though the plaintiffs allege the Saudi Committee sent money that supported Palestinian terror acts, the organization was never placed on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's list of prohibited parties. In addition, White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer had said the group was in good standing with the government back in 2002. In addition, the bank claims it did not choose the recipients of the money from the Saudi Committee. Arab Bank merely processed the transfers lawfully under existing commercial agreements, and the bank was acting in accordance with money laundering and terrorism regulations. “Arab Bank has great sympathy for all victims of terrorism but is not liable for the tragic acts described by Plaintiffs," according to a statement from Arab Bank. "The full evidentiary record – much of which may be excluded from the jury because of the sanctions order and other pre-trial rulings by the Linde court – demonstrates that the Bank did not cause or provide material support for the acts of terrorism involved in this case." Also within the statement, Arab Bank mentions that that United States Solicitor General Donald Verilli said the bank is “a constructive partner with the United States in working to prevent terrorist financing,” and “a leading participant in a number of regional forums on anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism.” However, that statement was made within a brief Verilli wrote to the Supreme Court saying the high court should not intervene as Arab Bank had petitioned, the New York Times reports. Arab Bank's statement also claims that, if found liable, it will mean that banks will now be liable for transactions made "when proper compliance requirements are followed and the parties were in good standing at the time." FREE AppDownload
