REUTERS/Chris WattieJim Flaherty (front L) receives a standing ovation during Question Period in the House of Commons on Parliament Hill in Ottawa February 12, 2014. Editor’s note: A previous version of this article was originally published on March 19, the morning after Jim Flaherty resigned as Finance Minister. James Michael “Jim” Flaherty, former finance minister of Canada, has passed away at the age of 64. Reports indicate that his passing was due to a massive heart attack. It was just 23 days ago when Jim Flaherty resigned his position, announcing that he would stay on as an MP before heading to the private sector. Prior to that, he was the only finance minister Stephen Harper’s government had ever known. Though he suffered from a rare skin disease (bullous pemphigoid), Mr. Flaherty had insisted that his health was not a factor in why he decided to leave politics. Mr. Flaherty’s resignation was surprising to the many Canadians who thought he would stay on until the budget was officially balanced; his death comes as an absolute shock. In recognition of Mr. Flaherty’s two decades of public service, it’s well worth the time to take a look at some of his high points, missteps, and the personality behind the political persona: Bill Curry and Barrie McKenna’s penned an exhaustive overview of Ottawa’s response to the financial crisis in The Globe and Mail. The article opens with the Finance Minister’s recollection of what was going through his head on December 18, 2008 after two days of meetings with Canadian finance ministers and business leaders (during which he heard all about the economy’s deterioration): “A light went on in my head at about 2 o’clock in the afternoon: This is worse than I thought,” Mr. Flaherty recalls. When the second day of meetings wrapped up, he placed a call to Prime Minister Stephen Harper. “ ‘You know, we hoped we could run a deficit of fifteen or twenty billion dollars and manage the problem at that level. But I don’t think so,’ ” Mr. Flaherty says he told the Prime Minister. “ ‘It’s deeper and darker and it’s at all levels of business.’ ” On the other hand, in a piece that celebrates Mr. Flaherty’s work ethic and “middle-Canadian ordinariness,” Kevin Carmichael of The Globe and Mail also points out a few of Flaherty’s foibles in his first few years as Finance Minister: [M]ore spectacularly than many of his peers, Flaherty failed to see the recession coming. In the spring of 2008, he was boasting that Canada would avoid a deficit, not just that year but every year as long as he was in charge. “Our budget is balanced and I assure you it will remain balanced,” Flaherty told a New York audience that April. Even at the end of November, more than two months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, he presented an economic statement that forecast a balanced budget. The claim was so ludicrous that it nearly brought down the government. Back in 2011, Marilla Stephenson of the Chronicle Herald reminded us that Flaherty had some comedy chops: He began Monday by confessing he might be recycling some of his material from what he says was the last speech he gave as Ontario’s attorney general, delivered at Kingston Penitentiary. ”I do apologize to those of you hearing me for the second time,” he deadpanned, before glibly adding, “Oh, I guess this is a Conservative gathering, not a Liberal gathering.”…Shamelessly recycling the old Mitt Romney joke from 2008, Flaherty told of how he asks his politician wife — Ontario PC deputy leader Christine Elliott — if she ever, in her wildest dreams, imagined they’d both hold high political office. ”Jim, you’re not in my wildest dreams,” she supposedly replies. When members of the Econowatch team at Maclean’s judged the finance minster’s performance on a variety of subjects, Mike Moffatt gave him the highest grade – an A minus – on trade policy: Flaherty’s 2009 budget was particularly strong, with the elimination of a number of tariffs on machinery and equipment, along with border improvements at Sarnia and Fort Erie, Ont. The elimination of tariffs on baby clothes and sporting equipment in the latest budget, while a relatively small measure, helps Canadian families and is a test case for future tariff reductions. While I am not a fan of how the General Preferential Tariff (GPT), which imposes lower-than-normal tariffs on imports from developing countries, was modernized, there is no question that the system was woefully out of date and needed to be addressed. Given Mr. Moffatt’s history with the Finance Department (re: the iPod Tax), he certainly had no reason to be an easy grader. Just as CIBC chief economist Avery Shenfeld observed that former Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney left Stephen Poloz in “a spot of bother,” The Globe and Mail’s David Parkinson writes about the work that remains to be done on the fiscal front, and questions the outgoing finance minister’s priorities: Canada’s economy has stalled as the recovery of the rest of the world has accelerated, leaving Mr. Flaherty’s successor to manage an economic underperformer. And Mr. Flaherty’s zeal for rapidly bringing the budget back into balance, even as a sputtering economy made a good case for continued government investment as a stimulus, may well have contributed to the loss of economic momentum. Compared with trying to shape fiscal policy in a way that will restore the long-term health of the economy, bashing the revenues and expenses into balance looks easy. And keeping the budget in balance after a significant belt-tightening period, particularly at a time when slow economic growth will lend little support from the revenue side, could also prove more difficult than merely achieving that first balance that Mr. Flaherty has apparently attained. Over at Maclean’s, Paul Wells says he wrote this Jim Flaherty profile in January “so it’d be handy for the day he quit” – and it certainly was. It wouldn’t be a stretch to suggest that Flaherty’s personal brand was stronger than the Conservative brand as a whole, an idea with which Mr Wells seems to concur: Flaherty matters so much to the fate of Canada’s Conservative government in 2014 because an election will follow in 2015. If the Conservatives—whether under Stephen Harper or his successor—manage to win a fourth straight election, it will be because their credibility as administrators outweighs their increasingly shopworn and scandal-bedraggled style. And the guarantor of their credibility is Jim Flaherty. Doug Porter, chief economist for the Bank of Montreal, tells The Globe and Mail that the next finance minister doesn’t have to be a clone of Mr. Flaherty…just someone who’s very much like him: I would say continuity (is what the market wants). Whoever steps into the role, they don’t have to be a carbon copy of Mr. Flaherty, nobody could be, but in terms of the broad policy thrust I think it was appropriate from a policy perspective, and most people would like to see that continue…I think this gives the next finance minister enough time, the next federal election is a little bit more than 18 months away. That’s a long time in politics. It would give the next finance minister a budget and the fall update as well, so I think they will have time to properly plant their feet. After Jim Flaherty tabled his last budget, the National Post’s John Ivison applauded the finance minister for looking out for some of the most vulnerable members of our society: Perhaps it’s because he has a son with developmental challenges but whatever the reason, he has been the champion for measures like the Disability Tax Credit and the Registered Disability Savings Plan in previous budgets. This time around, he has found money for vocational training for people with autism and labour market agreements to help people with disabilities get the skills they need. It may be an uncomfortable truth for Mr. Flaherty’s critics, who are only happy to believe he’s been cooking the books for the past nine years, that he’s also the man who’s done more than anyone to make life more affordable for some of the country’s most vulnerable citizens. Most of our work regarding Mr. Flaherty has centered on his gaffes on monetary policy – the time he referred to quantitative easing as “debt creations,” and when he opined that the Bank of Canada would be under pressure to raise rates this year. But while these forays into monetary policy were ill-advised, Mr. Flaherty never really crossed the line to the point where he threatened the Bank of Canada’s independence, as others have argued. REUTERS/Blair GableJim Flaherty speaks following the delivery of the budget on Parliament Hill in Ottawa February 11, 2014. And Mr. Flaherty’s legacy certainly won’t be defined by a few silly remarks about a subject largely outside of his purview. It is much more important to note that, in the aftermath of the global economic meltdown, the Canadian leadership didn’t really shoot the country in the foot, unlike our neighbours to the south or the British, who cut themselves off at the knees through crippling austerity measures. As a top economic official, and someone on the right-hand side of the political spectrum, Mr. Flaherty deserves credit for this. Though aggressive stimulus may not have been his first instinct, the finance minister proved that when an economic crisis strikes, we’re all Keynesians – or at least, that we all should be. It would be a stretch to say Mr. Flaherty learned from his mistakes, but his stint as finance minister ended on a much stronger note than it started on. With the passage of time, I am confident Canadians will think less and less about the “Halloween Massacre” following Mr. Flaherty’s move to squash income trusts, and more about the global economic meltdown that the nation mostly avoided during his tenure. The Chinese government may deserve more credit for this than our own, but I doubt this opinion is a widely-held one outside of certain circles, or that it will ever be. In recent months, the former finance minister’s humanity was on full display. When Mr. Flaherty was nearly moved to tears during a recent interview with CBC’s Amanda Lang, you’d need to have a heart of stone to fail to find some empathy for the man. It became easy to picture the young Jim Flaherty as the diminutive hockey player depicted in Kevin Carmichael’s article – a brash, feisty forward who battled hard in the corners at Princeton and wasn’t afraid to throw his weight around (or, if necessary, an elbow). In the political realm, Mr. Flaherty’s persistence was indomitable: he didn’t always (or often) meet his goals, and on several occasions, he had to choose new ones. But the finance minister’s fighting spirit was never vanquished, which made him a formidable adversary and a colleague who was difficult to work with. The most recent example of this is Mr. Flaherty’s decision to stand up to Prime Minister and break ranks on income-splitting, suggesting its economic merit was suspect. His move to criticize this Conservative policy plank will influence the debate in the upcoming 2015 election, just as his absence will radically alter the Canadian political landscape. In a government that is often criticized for speaking in monotone, Jim Flaherty will be remembered as a standalone figure. Rest in peace, Jim. FREE AppDownload
