One such classic warning sign is the slope of the yield curve. Historically, steeper yield curves (i.e., wider 10-year to 2-year spread) have been reliable forecasters of stronger overall nominal economic growth and stronger profits growth. Bigger yield differentials encourage banks to lend and investors to take more risk. Inverted yield curves, however, have historically been good predictors of recessions. An inverted yield curve signals the central bank may have tightened monetary policy too much, and it may be wiser to hoard funds than to lend them. The economy tends to slow after the yield curve inverts, and the probability of a recession significantly increases. US yield curves remain extraordinarily steep. Currently the slope of the 10 year to 2 year yield curve is around 230 basis points, which is about 11/2 standard deviations* above its normal steepness (roughly 95 basis points based on data from January 1979 through March 2014). This suggests there is ample liquidity in the economy, and bank lending has indeed begun to accelerate. The US curve is not as steep as it was, but it remains very steep by historical standards (see Chart 1). Richard Bernstein Advisors Emerging market yield curves tell a very different and disconcerting story. There is plenty of liquidity presently in the global financial markets, and there are not many flat or inverted yield curves around the world. However, with the exception of Japan and Switzerland, the emerging markets are home to all the world’s flat or inverted yield curves (see Chart 2). Richard Bernstein Advisors Thus, the liquidity backdrop in many emerging markets still appears to be deteriorating rather than improving as many investors suggest. Earnings growth in these markets is not strong enough to offset increasingly poor liquidity. Emerging market earnings growth continues to disappoint. As we’ve highlighted many times, emerging market companies continue to lead the world in negative earnings surprises (See Chart 3). It is hard for us to imagine that emerging market stocks will outperform when liquidity conditions are tightening and earnings continue to disappoint. Richard Bernstein Advisors More than four years ago we began to think the US was entering one of the biggest bull markets in our careers, but investors should be very wary of emerging markets. Nothing in our indicators suggests a change in that position. If liquidity was abundant and earnings growth was healthy, we’d readily invest in the emerging markets. Unfortunately, those characteristics are in the US and other developed markets and definitively not in emerging markets. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
