REUTERS/Brendan McDermidGood morning! Here are the major news stories already making an impact Thursday. Italy’s Tax Cut Is The Biggest Ever Done. Italy's cabinet on Wednesday approved a 2015 budget just hours before an EU deadline, unveiling plans to increase borrowing to slash taxes by €18 billion ($23.03 billion).  Saudi Arabia And Dubai Markets Plunge Amid Panic Selling. Saudi Arabia's main stock index plunged 5% on Thursday amid panic selling by retail investors, dragging down other stock markets in the Gulf. Europe's 'Fear Index' Is Smashing Through The Roof. Europe's volatility-measuring VSTOXX index is already up by more than 20% Thursday. European Markets Are Getting Hammered Again. The FTSE 100 is down 1.83%, France's CAC 40 index is down 2.40%, and Germany's DAX is down 1.76%. US Industrial Production Is Coming. At 9:15 a.m. ET, we’ll have industrial production figures for September, with analysts expecting a 0.4% increase from August. Then at 10 a.m. ET, the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing survey is out.   Airbus’ CEO Says Germany Treats Defense Companies Like Smut. Germany treats the sector like 'smut,' Airbus Group chief executive Tom Enders told a German newspaper. Hong Kong’s Leader And Protesters Might Go Back To Negotiating. Hong Kong's embattled leader reopened his offer of talks with student leaders Thursday a week after the government abruptly pulled out of discussions.  ISIS’ Advance Has Been Stalled By Airstrikes. The advance of Islamic State fighters on Kobani stalled on Thursday according to a monitoring group, after US-led coalition warplanes launched their heaviest bombardment yet on the militants.  The White House Is Now In Crisis Mode Over Ebola. The White House has canceled two days of planned political events as President Barack Obama strives to show he has control over stopping the spread of the deadly disease. Oil Just Crashed Below $80. West Texas Intermediate crude (WTI) is now below $80/barrel for the first time since summer 2012. FREE AppDownload
