APEdward Koch, Malcolm Forbes and First Lady Nancy Reagan on Forbes' yacht in New York Harbor, 1981.Malcolm S. Forbes, the legendary publisher of Forbes magazine, lived large. His was a life filled with gold helicopters, Harley-Davidson motorcycles, a fleet of hot-air balloons, and glittering parties populated by hundreds of high-powered guests. But no plaything he owned was more beloved than his yacht The Highlander, the fifth and final edition of a series of identically named vessels. Here heads of state gathered alongside corporate titans and international boldface types, sipping French wines while bandleader Lester Lanin and his orchestra played snappy standards on the aft deck. The multimillion-dollar boat and its glamorous swirl of posh food and rare vintages was all about networking and cultivating influence, Forbes once said: “On a yacht like The Highlander you can establish the kind of rapport you don’t achieve talking across a desk.” Jon Bannenberg, a world­-renowned London-based boat designer, was responsible for the sleek vessel, which was topped with a helipad for Forbes’s gold­painted Bell Jet Ranger helicopter. New owners Joanne and Roberto de Guardiola have extensively renovated the boat, dropping the “the” from its name as well as lengthening Highlander to turn what was a largely business­-related craft designed to host as many as 140 guests into a family-­friendly vessel. Condè Nast Condè Nast Condè Nast Condè Nast Lisl Dennis Lisl Dennis Lisl Dennis Eventually Forbes would give her a purple-painted Harley-­Davidson Sportster (purple was one of her favorite colors and referenced her famous “violet” eyes) as well as several pieces of jewelry and an antique Fabergé picture frame. The two also traveled the world aboard The Highlander, sometimes heading up the Hudson River to see football games at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. On one trip to Thailand, the actress brought 37 pieces of Louis Vuitton luggage.   Tom Brady &amp; Gisele Bündchen's Custom Château Ralph Lauren Shows off His Many Homes Sandy Weill's Wine Country Estate The World's Most Radical Houses This article originally appeared at Architectural Digest.  Copyright 2014. Follow Architectural Digest on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
