It was, for decades, almost an economic truism: whatever direction the unemployment rate took, wage growth went in the other.  When unemployment rose, wage growth stalled. When unemployment fell, wage growth picked up again.  Until recently.  The U.S. economy grew an impressive 3.9 percent last quarter and 4.6 percent in the previous period, and unemployment is the lowest it’s been in six years. Yet wage growth has been paltry: average hourly earnings grew just 2.1 percent in November, barely above the October inflation rate of 1.7 percent—and significantly lower than pre-recession rates that regularly topped 3 percent. This doesn’t bode well for the strength or duration of the recovery: consumers need to earn more if they’re going to spend more. Is our economy broken? Not necessarily, say Credit Suisse analysts Neville Hill and James Sweeney. For one, wage growth does tend to lag economic growth, and the length of the current lag isn’t that unusual for a post-recession environment. And in this recovery, fewer workers have been changing jobs than in the past, so most companies are hiring from the pool of the unemployed, and the result has been little upward pressure on overall wages. Companies won’t need to start hiring from their competitors until demand starts to trump supply. That’s what will cause real growth in wages again.  The good news? There are indications that we’re headed in that direction. Wages rose 0.4 percent in November compared with the previous month, greater than the meager 0.1 percent monthly increase in October. Wages and salaries also rose 0.8 percent in the third quarter, the biggest increase since 2008, according to the Labor Department’s Employment Cost Index. Also, the Fed said in its “Beige Book” report released on Wednesday that wage pressures were picking up, with employers “adjusting compensation to win well-qualified job candidates,” giving raises “to high-value, long-term existing employees,” and increasing wages for lower-skilled jobs. There is, however, the fact that some of the causes of sluggish wage growth aren’t just cyclical, but structural as well. Inflation-adjusted median household income, for example, was on a constant upswing in the final decades of last century, increasing from $42,934 in 1967 to $55,987 in the year 2000. But that was the peak: wages have been in decline ever since, with median income clocking in at $51,939 in 2013. Wages and salaries have also fallen as a share of gross domestic income, from 51.5 percent in 1970 to 42 percent last year, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. “There is an overarching downward trend in what workers get as a percentage of what’s being produced in the country,” says Dana Saporta, U.S. economics analyst at Credit Suisse. One reason for that falling share is that technological advances have allowed companies to replace workers with machines. And machines don’t earn a salary. Another: the continued outsourcing of jobs to countries where labor is cheaper. “The decline in real unit labor costs may partly reflect secular factors that predate the recession,” Fed Chair Janet Yellen said in an August speech. “If so, productivity growth could continue to outpace real wage gains even when the economy is again operating at its potential." Another factor might be the growing corporate emphasis on stock buybacks and dividend payouts, according to University of Massachusetts Lowell economics professor William Lazonick. Between 2003 and 2012, S&amp;P500 companies used 54 percent of earnings to buy back their own stock and 37 percent for dividends. That left just 9 percent for everything else, from investing in the business to employee raises. In other words, the real beneficiaries of corporate capital allocation of late have been stockholders, not low-level employees. “Stock-based instruments make up the majority of [executives’] pay, and in the short term buybacks drive up stock prices,” Lazonick wrote in September in the Harvard Business Review. The structural nature of the wage conundrum may become blurred in the next few months, according to Credit Suisse. Wage growth is expected to start accelerating, which, among other things, could give the Fed reason to start raising interest rates next year. But that will be a cyclical development. Credit Suisse still expects the labor share of national income to remain below pre-2000 levels, and that might be proof that the historic linkage between the economy and wage growth might have been permanently altered. “We expect it to turn around somewhat,” Saporta says, “but the downward trend that has been in place is likely to continue.” FREE AppDownload
