Cory Sylvester knows a thing or two about wearing a suit. The baseball player, turned actor, turned clothier is now the man in charge of measuring and fitting at one of NYC’s premiere custom menswear shops; Michael Andrews Bespoke. I have to respect Cory’s hustle since I was his predecessor in that position (before AofS I apprenticed under Michael; learning the ins-and-outs of the tailoring business while simultaneously working-off my bespoke suit balance). When your job is making guys look their best in tailoredwear, you learn how to wear a suit with ease, comfort, and confidence. Here Cory shows us a few ways to take your suit game to the next level. Photography by Alex CrawfordPattern-mixing doesn’t have to be all bold and in-your-face. Try shrinking down your patterns for effect, like this micro shadow plaid on tight polka dot. Photography by Alex CrawfordThe fit is on point and the Ariston fabric is gorgeous, but it’s the details that make this suit a real killer. Little touches like the jean-style pockets (one of Cory’s signatures) make it a one-of-a-kind piece. This is also a perfect example of how much waistcoat should be visible under a jacket. Photography by Alex Crawford Photography by Alex Crawford(Blue/black shadow check suit by Michael Andrews Bespoke; Black monkstrap loafers by Scarpe di Bianco; Navy Knit Tie by Ralph Lauren; Sunglasses (vintage) by American Optical) Photography by Alex CrawfordAdding lapels to your waistcoat is a throwback move that can bring some life and dimension to your three-piece. It also makes the waistcoat more substantial on its own. I usually stick with notch lapel under notch lapel, or peak under peak, but there are no hard and fast rules to this. Here’s a super luxe shawl under peak, for example. Photography by Alex CrawfordIf you look very closely, this is also another example of micro pattern-mixing: houndstooth suit, hairline stripe shirt, and pindot tie. I love it when pieces look solid-colored until you get up close to see the texture and creativity. There’s taste in subtlety. Photography by Alex Crawford Photography by Alex Crawford(Brown micro houndstooth suit by Michael Andrews Bespoke; Sunglasses by Matsuda Eyewear; Brown slip-on loafers by Scarpe di Bianco) Photography by Alex CrawfordWe’ve done some pretty serious suited and booted looks, but never with a riding boot this sharp. Nobody makes a sexier harness boot than Saint Laurent. These are rugged enough to finish-off a black leather jacket and waxed jeans on the weekend, and sleek enough to keep up with the most luxurious of tailored suits (like this double-breasted Dormeuil shadow stripe). Photography by Alex Crawford Photography by Alex Crawford(Shadow stripe DB suit by Michael Andrews Bespoke; Black leather harness boots by Saint Laurent Paris) FREE AppDownload
