Dr. Ed's BlogThank you, Janet Yellen! You didn’t disappoint me. You are still the “Fairy Godmother of the Bull Market!” As I’ve noted many times before, the S&amp;P 500 tends to rise after Yellen speaks about the economy and monetary policy. The S&amp;P 500 soared 4.5% on Wednesday and Thursday in response to the dovish FOMC statement and Yellen’s bullish press conference. On Wednesday, I wrote: However, the plunge in oil prices and the turmoil in the junk bond market might increase the likelihood that the Fed will delay the so-called "lift-off" of interest rates beyond mid-2015. "None and done" in 2015 is a distinct possibility for Fed policy. Let’s see what Fed Chair Janet Yellen has to say later today. I’m counting on her to continue to be the "Fairy Godmother of the Bull Market.” On Tuesday, I wrote, “The FOMC might surprise us and keep ‘considerable time’ in the statement.” I noted that inflationary expectations are falling. I also wrote: The distress in the junk bond market might also dissuade the FOMC from changing the "considerable time" language. In any case, Fed Chair Janet Yellen’s press conference on Wednesday afternoon could have a big impact on the markets. I’m still betting that she is the "Fairy Godmother of the Bull Market.” On Monday, I noted that FRB-Chicago President Charles Evans, one of the Fed’s uber-doves, has called on his colleagues to be patient and to delay raising interest rates.  Wednesday’s FOMC statement confirmed my analysis: Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy. The Committee sees this guidance as consistent with its previous statement that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of its asset purchase program in October, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. The FOMC remains dovish and patient. It will be even more dovish and patient next year when Evans will be a voter. Two of the three dissenters (Richard Fisher and Charles Plosser) were hawks, who are retiring. The FOMC has to be concerned about the financial stresses caused by the plunge in oil prices and the strength of the dollar, as evidenced by the spike in junk bond yields and the selloffs in the bonds, stocks, and currencies of emerging economies. That’s why they are willing to be patient for a considerable time longer.Dr. Ed's BlogYesterday's Morning Briefing: Grand Central 24/7. (1) Fairy Godmother. (2) The FOMC will be even more dovish and patient next year. (3) Evans will get a vote next year, and two hawks are retiring. (4) FOMC clearly concerned about financial instability related to dropping oil prices, soaring dollar, and and rising junk yields. (5) Central banks succeeding in inflating wealth. (6) Their transmission mechanisms to their economies aren’t working so well. (7) Weak data stimulate PBOC to ease and Chinese stocks to soar. (8) ECB’s Coeuré pushing for QE. (9) November crude oil demand drowned in sea of oil. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
