Spotify/The GuardianStreaming music service Spotify is rolling out a redesign across its web, desktop and mobile apps, with a darker theme and new feature for users to build collections of their favourite music. The revamp comes ahead of the anticipated debut of rival services from Apple and YouTube, possibly as soon as this summer. Meanwhile, one of the most prominent critics of Spotify, musician David Byrne, has returned to the theme in an article questioning streaming's sustainability for artists. Spotify says it spent six months working on the redesign, which is rolling out to its users from today. The new theme is heavy on black backgrounds, in an attempt to place more focus on album and artist artwork. "It's like when you go to the cinema, and they dim the lights, and the movie steps forward and takes over the room," Spotify's director of product Michelle Kadir told The Guardian. "When you log on to Spotify now, everything else is secondary except the music, which is popping." The new collections feature is called Your Music, and enables people to save songs and albums to a personal collection, providing an alternative to playlists – the traditional way that Spotify users have saved music for quick access. The Your Music section on Spotify can be browsed by songs, albums, artists or local files – the latter relating to music stored on the device being used. Individual songs in Spotify now have '+' symbols next to them for adding them to the collection, while albums have a prominent 'Save' button. "The modern user wants to personalize all the different products that they are using. We want to help them quickly find what they want," said Kadir. "Even in an access model, they want to keep track of everything they like." Your Music has been a long time coming: it was first trailed by Spotify in a press event in December 2012. It can be seen as an attempt to make the company's catalogue of more than 20m tracks less intimidating for mainstream music fans by mirroring the idea of a personal music collection, which they'll be familiar with from CDs and MP3s. Spotify's redesign also includes a tweak to its Browse feature, which suggests music for people to listen to in the form of playlists and popular albums. It will now spotlight themed playlists according to the time of day and week – for example, at the time of writing (8am on a Wednesday) it recommends a series of "Midweek Mornings" playlists. Both features represent Spotify catching up to competitors, to some extent. The collection metaphor has been a standard feature for rival Rdio for some time, while US streaming music service Songza debuted the idea of contextual playlists in 2012 with its "Music Concierge" feature – and it has since been adopted by a number of services. Spotify's redesign comes early in an important year for the company, as it plans more global expansion – Russia, Brazil and Japan are all high on its priorities judging by the company's recruitment activities in recent months – and faces up to the prospect of two of the biggest companies in the digital music world moving into direct competition with their own subscription streaming services. The New York Post claimed this week that YouTube will launch its long-awaited subscription music service this summer, charging people $5 a month for an ad-supported version, or $10 a month without the ads. It suggests that the service will initially launch through a "Music Pass" Android app. Meanwhile, Apple is thought to be accelerating its plans to launch a fully on-demand streaming music service under its iTunes brand, following the US debut last year of iTunes Radio, which streams personalized stations but doesn't allow users to pick and choose the songs and albums that they listen to. Music industry site Billboard claimed earlier this month that Apple had opened "exploratory talks" with music labels about launching such a service, in a response to sales of music downloads tipping into a decline after years of growth. This week's New York Post story returns to that rumor, quoting one source as claiming that Apple "have technology in place and can flip the switch at any time". The company's WWDC conference in June would be the logical time to unveil a streaming iTunes, alongside the next version of Apple's iOS software. Spotify's official stats claim the company has 24m active users and 6m paying subscribers. Those figures were last updated in March 2013, but industry sources tell The Guardian the company is nearing 10m paying subscribers now. Its biggest rival is Deezer, which claims 5m paying subscribers and 12m active users. According to industry body the IFPI, 28m people paid for streaming music subscriptions in 2013, generating $1.1bn of revenues for the music industry. Spotify says it paid out more than $500m to music rights-holders that year, taking it to more than $1bn since its launch in 2008. In 2014, Spotify isn't just facing competition from the big beasts of the technology world. It also continues to be the lightning rod for criticism from prominent musicians about whether the transition from music ownership to music access is a harmful one for artists. David Byrne, who made waves with his claim that "the internet will suck all creative content out of the world" in October 2013, has returned to the theme this week in an article posted on his website titled How will the wolf survive: can musicians make a living in the streaming era? In the piece, Byrne explores what will happen to musicians "when streaming becomes the new download", responding to several arguments in favour of streaming's impact on artists with questions and criticism, while setting out four suggestions for making services like Spotify more artist-friendly. They include labels giving artists a 50% share of income from streams of their music – something that is starting to happen – ensuring they have the right to approve whether or not their music is made available on streaming services; providing transparent accounting and sharing of data with artists from streaming services; and a suggestion that free on-demand streaming should be abolished: "Everything would transition to be a subscription-only service". For its part, Spotify has been tackling some of these issues, creating a website for artists in December 2013 that published more details of how its payouts were calculated, while also launching analytics for artists to better understand how their music was being streamed. • Spotify v Musicians: 10 things to read to understand the debate This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
