UBS Investor WatchFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Man-Led Households Often Take On Higher Amounts Of Risk Which Can Be Problematic (UBS Investor Research) Men take on the primary financial decision-making role for 40% of couples, according to a report from UBS Investor Watch. They make all financial decisions except those related to day-to-day expenses, large purchases and real estate purchases, where decisions are made equally. But couples in which men take the investment steering wheel face a few key issues. 70% of man-led households use the male's risk tolerance. "These couples are the most likely to have differing risk tolerances—half the time the man has a higher risk tolerance than the woman. In most of these cases, the couple winds up just using the man’s more aggressive risk tolerance, and the woman’s financial views are frequently not incorporated into the couples’ financial planning.  "…Facing longevity and the likelihood of being responsible for financial decisions in the future, retired women in these couples are significantly less confident and more worried about their financial futures than women who are a primary or shared decision-maker." Here's How To Best Manage Country Risk (Vanguard) The best way to manage country risk — the economic and political problems that plague individual countries or a region — is to take on a "more globally oriented portfolio, whether we’re talking about fixed income or equity," says Joe Davis, Vanguard chief economist. "I think the narrower ones, say [an] equity portfolio, mean it’s really targeted to one individual country, and where one is just exposed to the inherent risk that may be just not shared by other countries around the world. So it’s this notion of international diversification, which we think is always critical."  "And so you’re going to have, just all else equal going forward, perhaps similar returns with greater volatility, the more narrow your equity portfolio. And so the recent slowdowns in emerging markets here or there, I think, just underscores the fact that having a broader portfolio tends to moderate those individual issues, and that’s always, I think, a valuable starting point for investors." Brokerages Are Trying To Tackle Elderly Financial Abuse (The Wall Street Journal) Brokerage firms are building compliance groups to tackle elderly financial abuse in cases where elderly clients are exhibiting cognitive problems like dementia or memory loss, reports  Matthias Rieker at the WSJ. Wells Fargo is putting together a team of seven for a 'Department of Elderly Client Initiative' that will help advisors prevent elderly financial abuse. Edward Jones and Merrill Lynch are also tackling this issue. Morgan Stanley's risk department is teaching its advisors how identify and report elder abuse. Employers And Employees Want Retirement Plan Advisors To Adhere To Fiduciary Standard (Investment News) A survey of 3,010 employers by AARP, found that 89% of employers that offer 401(k) plans want their advisors to hold themselves to a fiduciary standard. Meanwhile, a May 2013 survey by AARP found that 93% of employees want their advisors to adhere to a fiduciary standard.  "The results of the two AARP surveys are a strong, almost incontestable vote for the principle that the financial advice provided to those in retirement plans should be in the best interest of the plan participants, not in the best interest of the adviser," said Cristina Martin Firvida, director of financial security and consumer affairs at AARP, according to Mark Schoeff Jr at Investment News. "We continue to urge the Department of Labor to proceed with an updated rule that ensures greater financial protection for workers and their families." If You Think Wealth Inequality Is Bad Now, Look How Bad It Could Get This Century (Business Insider) The global wealth and income inequality problem is getting worse. And many that have read Thomas Piketty's "Capital In The Twenty-First Century," worry that this is just the start. The chart depicting the world's capital to income ratio is what has most worried. As this ratio rises, wealth becomes more powerful than income. Piketty expects the global capital-to-income ratio to head back towards 700%, last seen in Europe from 1700 to World War I. "In a way, the United States is becoming like Old Europe, which is very strange in historical perspective," Mr. Piketty told The New York Times. "Absent drastic policy changes, I doubt that income inequality will decline on its own." piketty.pse.ens.fr/capital21c FREE AppDownload
