The PLA will work to institutionalise mechanisms to ensure the ideological purity of the army and ensure its absolute loyalty to the Communist Party. A lengthy article published by the General Political Department on front page of the PLA Daily today said the army would step up vigilance when deciding on promotions and placement of personnel to guarantee the long-term viability of its anti-graft campaign. Officers who prove they stand shoulder to shoulder with the party leadership on “major issues of principle” would have a better chance of promotion, the department said. Those who try to create their own power bases through nepotism or corruption would either be demoted or dismissed, it added. The remarks came as anti-graft inspectors pledged to broaden their investigations into possible malpractices within the army, while wrapping up the case against the disgraced former general Xu Caihou. The General Political Department, one of the four general headquarters of the PLA, is responsible for disciplinary affairs and human resources. It said officers would be evaluated based on their “implementation of [President] Xi Jinping’s directives”, “stances on major issues of principles” and “attitude towards wealth and fame”. “In this way, we can ensure the gun is always in the hands of those who are loyal to the party,” the department said in the PLA article. Xu’s case was mentioned three times, underlining the urgency in strengthening party leaders’ control over the military and to “purify the military leadership”. Earlier this month, Xi, who is also chairman of the Central Military Commission, held a two-day conference with PLA’s top brass in Gutian, where Mao Zedong held a historic congress in 1929 that established the principle of the party being in control of the military. Today’s article was an interpretation of Xi’s speech during the conference, the PLA Daily said. In its earlier report on Xi’s speech during the conference, the PLA Daily said the army must “grasp the initiative in the ideological struggle and rebuild its military spirit” to fight corruption and other ideological struggles, including the influence of “colour revolutions”, a reference to the recent turmoil and revolts in eastern Europe and the Middle East. Military analysts said the Gutian meeting showed Xi’s determination to reaffirm his full control over the military amid his ongoing anti-graft campaign. FREE AppDownload
