Wikimedia CommonsMost investors dislike rising rates. They make equities less attractive, and they cause instant markdowns to fixed income holdings. But pension fund managers welcome them with open arms. Why? Because companies are required to calculate the present value of their future pension obligations using prevailing rates. When rates rise, their current obligations fall. Last year, managers got a double-barreled boost from both rising interest rates and a soaring stock market – a welcome change from the persistently low interest rates that have caused pension shortfalls to march steadily higher since 2008. But this year, interest rates have fallen despite nearly universal predictions to the contrary, and even weaker asset returns haven’t allowed funds to close the funding gap. The result: come December, pension plans will provide a positive contribution to the balance sheet or earnings as they did in 2013. Indeed, Credit Suisse says pensions are more likely to be an outright drag than otherwise, but also notes that the impact on earnings could be delayed because of the complexity of pension accounting. Firms use prevailing investment-grade bond yields to estimate the present value of their future obligations. When rates rise, corporate obligations look smaller, and required contributions shrink. That’s what happened in 2013, say Credit Suisse analysts Ron Graziano and Amit Varshney, when the pension plans of the S&amp;P 500 got a $200 billion boost from the 75-basis-point increase in rates. Adding to the good news, pension plan assets grew 5.8 percent that year. By year-end, plans looked to be 88 percent funded, up from 77 percent at the start of the year. This also resulted in a significant earnings boost. Verizon booked a $3.7 billion pension-related after-tax gain in the fourth quarter, while Ashland, a Kentucky-based chemicals company, booked $313 million. Required contributions fell too: Cigna’s 2014 estimated contribution of $100 million is nearly 50 percent below that of 2013 because the plan’s funded status improved by $1 billion. Times have changed. As of July 31, the discount rate had fallen 50 basis points in 2014, resulting in an estimated shortfall increases of some $115 billion. Varshney and Graziano say plan assets would have to increase 6.8 percent by year-end to make up for the drop in the discount rate — an unlikely outcome considering that they were down 0.5 percent as of July 31. This combined effect caused a decline in funded status to an estimated 82 percent. “Pensions were a major benefit last year, especially for aerospace companies and auto companies,” Graziano says. “This year, they won’t provide that same positive kick.” Of the companies with the 10 largest pension plans, UPS’s estimated funded status was hardest hit through July, from 89 percent to 79 percent, a decline of $3.9 billion. GM’s estimated $6.8 billion decline was the largest on a dollar basis, and its funded status dropped from 80 percent to 74 percent. If a challenging rate environment wasn’t making life difficult enough, there’s also a potential long-term spoiler lurking on the horizon. The Society of Actuaries recently released a draft paper suggesting that companies start incorporating Americans’ ever-lengthening life spans when calculating their pension obligations. It’s been two decades since the last change of actuarial assumptions, and during that time life expectancy for 65-year-olds has increased 10 percent for men (from 19.6 years to 21.6 years) and 11 percent for women (from 21.4 years to 23.8 years). While the guideline isn’t yet mandatory, some companies have already begun to use it, and with dramatic results. AT&amp;T’s pension obligations grew by some $2 billion while Lockheed Martin’s rose $3.4 billion. If all companies adopted the new mortality tables in 2014, the estimated corporate funding gap would widen, with plans’ funded status dropping from 82 percent to between 75 and 78 percent, Graziano and Varshney say. However, there’s still uncertainty about the near term impact. Most companies won’t adopt the new method until they have to, but it offers a glimpse of what lies ahead. FREE AppDownload
