Does IQ correlate with power? How many powerful people in the U.S. are actually geniuses, and how much does intelligence really affect success? In one of my research papers published last year, Investigating America's Elite, I set out to address these questions. I collected data on some key groups that greatly influence society: Fortune 500 CEOs, billionaires, federal judges, Senators, and House members. Individuals were deemed to be in the top 1% of ability if they attended an undergraduate or graduate school that had extremely high average standardized test scores that put the typical person well within the top 1%. Researchers have determined that standardized tests, such as the SAT and ACT, give a reasonably good — yet of course imperfect — measure of a person's general reasoning capacity. For more detail on the method used, including its limitations, please read the full paper, published in the journal Intelligence. Jonathan WaiRoughly 40% or more of billionaires, judges, CEOs, and Senators, and 20% of the House were in the top 1% of cognitive ability. Therefore, a large fraction of the U.S. elite are indeed smart and highly educated. This does not mean they are geniuses (I would reserve that term for someone who does mind-bending work like Albert Einstein); but they are really smart. Moreover, it turns out that even within the highly select groups of Fortune 500 CEOs and billionaires, higher cognitive ability and education was associated with higher compensation and net worth, respectively, supporting the idea that brainpower has a payoff when it comes to certain forms of leadership and performance. This mirrors the findings of a recent study of profoundly gifted students in the top 0.01% (IQs around 180) published in Psychological Science. In it, my colleagues Harrison Kell, David Lubinski, and Camilla Benbow asked the question: "Who rises to the top?" They tracked this brainy group, identified at age 12, for nearly three decades to see what positions in society they attained. Many had become CEOs and vice presidents of companies, high level attorneys and physicians, professors at top universities, senior engineers, and other directors. This shows many smart young people become successful, but also that many successful people were also smart when young. It seems that today's elites are increasingly coming from the high end of the IQ distribution. And that's especially true in highly complex fields like finance and tech. Billionaires in the investments and technology sectors had the largest fraction of people who were also in the top 1% of cognitive ability (see the black bars in graph below). Jonathan Wai It's not hard to think of famous examples. Think Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, Larry Page, and Mark Zuckerberg. As Joe Weisenthal astutely pointed out, Facebook's acquisition of WhatsApp exemplified how technology amplifies the talents of the top 1%: "Thanks to the internet, a few folks who had the right combination of skill and luck were able to create a gigantic business that spanned the globe in just a few years. And we're seeing this replicated over and over these days in ways that would have been hard to fathom in earlier generations."  The connection between intelligence, power, and gender also proves fascinating, albeit still difficult to study. In general, women were largely underrepresented among the U.S. elite groups examined. Notably, female Fortune 500 CEOs were underrepresented by a factor of 28.3 to 1. But among those women who had climbed the ranks, they had to be smarter and more select, on average, than their male counterparts (see the bottom left of graph below).  Jonathan WaiRoughly 60% of female CEOs but only 40% of male CEOs were in the top 1% of cognitive ability. This may show that in the business world, as recently minted billionaire Sheryl Sandberg has pointed out in her book "Lean In," there are still many obstacles for women. Consider the remarkable personal qualities and achievements of Yahoo! CEO Marissa Mayer, who Nicholas Carlson elegantly profiled, illustrating how so very different from ordinary someone like her had to be to climb to the top.  It's important to note that the groups of the U.S. elite described here provide case controls (see this recent study of mine for more detail), showing that although a large fraction of people (about 40%) among these groups were well within the top 1% (IQ 137 and above), this means nearly half or more were not. So although brainpower certainly matters, it isn't the only thing that contributes to an individual's success. Other factors — including conscientiousness, focus, vision, an immense work ethic, social skill, political savvy, desire for power, and luck — combine to determine whether someone will rise to a position of leadership among the U.S. elite. Jonathan Wai, Ph.D., is a psychologist, writer, and research scientist at the Duke University Talent Identification Program and an expert on multiple issues surrounding the development of intellectual and creative talent. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook, or G+. Read his blog Finding the Next Einstein: Why Smart is Relative. © 2014 by Jonathan Wai FREE AppDownload
