Danny Chan/VFS Digital Design via Flickr   This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;     We're looking for a hardworking individual with strong quantitative and analytical skills to join a growing team of analysts at Business Insider Intelligence. The candidate must also be an excellent writer. What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides in-depth analysis and insights on the tech industry. We publish newsletters, news notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help individual and corporate subscribers stay on top of key tech trends. The service, launched in 2012, has experienced rapid growth and has expanded from its original focus on mobile to cover additional tech-related topics, including digital payments, video, and e-commerce. This is an opportunity to join a team that's redefining what a professional tech research service can be. Check out BII here. What's The Job?  The ideal Research Analyst will have a deep interest in tech news and feel comfortable analyzing a wide range of tech-related topics, including social, mobile, e-commerce, digital marketing, and mobile payments. The Research Analyst will support the research team in data-related tasks. These will include: creating charts, curating and updating data sets, researching/sourcing data, and managing data and document production. Desired Skills And Experience The candidate will complement their strong data-processing ability with excellent writing skills. The ideal candidate would also have an interest in visual data presentation. After a training period, the candidate will be expected to independently produce full-length research reports of value to our members.   If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you must possess: Skills: This role offers a unique opportunity to straddle the journalism and business/consulting worlds. It would be an excellent way to sharpen your skills before business school, or launching a career in digital media, research, or business journalism.  If interested, please submit your resume, a short cover letter and writing samples to us. Resumes submitted without work examples will not be considered. Thank you in advance.  FREE AppDownload
