Getty / Ethan MillerTwitter CEO Dick Costolo.For the first time as a public company, Twitter has delivered an earnings report that investors absolutely love.  It delivered earnings per share of $0.02 on $312 million in revenue, which is up 124% year over year. Both of those soundly smashed expectations. Its revenue guidance for the current quarter was well ahead of expectations as well. But Twitter has always done pretty well against revenue expectations. Where it has struggled is with usage statistics. This quarter, Twitter finally beat analysts' expectations. It had 271 million monthly active users (MAUs) versus expectations of 267 million monthly active users. That's a 24% year-over-year jump in usage, and a 6% increase on a quarterly basis.  The combination of better-than-expected revenue, EPS, and monthly usage has sent the stock to the moon. In after-hours trading the stock was up over 35% at one point.  This is a great report from Twitter, and it's hard to find much to be negative about. However, if you want to pooh-pooh the numbers you could say this is all about the World Cup, which boosted usage.  On the earnings call, though, CEO Dick Costolo repeatedly emphasized that Twitter's monthly active user number was a reflection of changes to the product, not the World Cup. He said the World Cup drove engagement, but not usage. If you really have your heart set on being negative, you might want to point out that this is all about expectations. Facebook, which has 1.3 billion users, added 41 million users last quarter. Twitter, with just 271 million users, added 16 million users. Also, as Peter Kafka at Re/code points out, last quarter, monthly active users were up 25% on a year-over-year basis and everyone was negatively freaking out. This quarter, monthly active users were up 24%, and everyone is positively freaking out. Here are the key numbers versus expectations: Here's a chart from BI Intelligence on user numbers: BIIAnd here's another one on timeline views: BIIWe're updating this post as we go, so hit refresh for the latest, or just click here. FREE AppDownload
