Carlos Barria/ReutersA man looks over the Pudong financial district of Shanghai.Screenwriter William Goldman once wrote that “nobody knows anything” in Hollywood. What the scribe behind “Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid” and “All the President’s Men” meant was that nobody ever knows whether or not a movie will be a hit. According to folklore, Star Wars creator George Lucas was so sure it would be a flop that he avoided the premiere and went on holiday instead.  Long-suffering foreign investors may well ask themselves whether anyone really knows how to make money investing in China-related stocks.  The pace of China’s rise to global prominence has been unprecedented, but perhaps just as extraordinary for investors has been the way equity markets have usually disappointed, despite the breakneck speed of economic growth. While Shanghai-listed stocks have roughly doubled over the past 20 years, the S&amp;P500 – an index representing many companies already well past their most dynamic growth phase — has more than quadrupled over the same period. A key problem is that while the world’s most populous nation may have embarked upon an Industrial Revolution that is changing the planet, it has few companies that are truly world class. Most companies are adjusting from decades of state interference, poor corporate governance, with minority shareholders getting a raw deal, and many companies still pursuing political instead of commercial goals.   Prospects for investors may seem even grimmer given the country’s struggle to find a sustainable alternative to its “growth-at-all-costs” economic model, and an addiction to debt that invites comparisons with the U.S. before the sub-prime economic crisis.  At Aberdeen, we believe these are problems that should be expected when the world’s fourth-biggest country attempts to leap from Third World to First in less than 40 years. What is particular about China is that, as a one-party state, getting things done has never been an issue. There is a keen awareness of the problems at the highest levels and a genuine desire to tackle them, even if the solution poses huge social challenges. In our view, investors should continue to believe that Chinese consumption will keep growing for many years to come. There is great domestic demand for goods ranging from luxury handbags to travel, mobile phones, domestic appliances, and groceries bought in supermarkets. The trick has always been to capitalise on this demand while avoiding potential pitfalls. Alternatively, investors could consider Chinese companies that are listed in Hong Kong, the semi-autonomous former British colony which enforces more rigorous standards of corporate governance than in Mainland China itself. This is not the end of the road for the China story. Like Star Wars, expect more sequels to follow. Past performance is not an indication of future results. International investing entails special risk considerations, including currency fluctuations, lower liquidity, economic and political risks, and differences in accounting methods. Any opinion or estimate contained in this document is made on a general basis and is not to be relied on by the reader as advice. The above is for informational purposes only and should not be considered as an offer, or solicitation, to deal in any of the investments mentioned herein. Aberdeen Asset Management (AAM) does not warrant the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the information and materials contained in this document and expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in such information and materials. This article originally appeared at Aberdeen Asset Management.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
