YouTube still, Reuters, APLeft to right: Charles, David, and William Koch. Frederick Koch is pictured below.Frederick Koch’s Upper East Side townhouse sits on a quiet street off Fifth Avenue, near the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It is January 2013, and in a little over a week’s time, Frederick’s hard-hat-wearing younger brother will dip a ceremonial shovel into a mound of dirt in front of the museum, officially breaking ground on the David H. Koch Plaza. Frederick, the eldest of the four Koch brothers, has devoted his life to the arts, but it’s David’s name that’s plastered on some of New York’s most prestigious cultural real estate, including the former New York State Theater at Lincoln Center. The world of the Upper East Side elite is a small one, and Frederick and David occasionally bump into each other at galas or charity functions. These short, awkward exchanges (“Oh, hi, Freddie”) are pretty much the extent of their contact. Getty/Ben GabbeFrederick KochUnlike David, who enjoys the status that comes with his high-profile philanthropy, Frederick conducts his life as if almost striving for obscurity. Thanks to the recent infamy achieved by David and Charles Koch through their sprawling political operation, he is now thought of as one of the “other” Koch brothers (along with another brother, Bill). Frederick, 80, is so private about his affairs that during the 1980s, after underwriting the $2.8 million construction of England’s Swan Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon (in the shell of a fire-ravaged Victorian playhouse), he kept quiet about his gift for several years, as the British press tried to dig up the name of the angel donor. When Frederick’s role was finally revealed, he told the BBC in a rare interview, “Never ask from where I came, nor what is my rank or name.” He was quoting Lohengrin’s warning to Elsa, when the knight comes to her aid in Wagner’s romantic opera. When Elsa later poses the forbidden question, her savior disappears in a boat pulled by a dove. Built of white marble, Frederick’s seven-story neoclassical townhouse is one of a trio commissioned, in the early 1900s, by dime-store magnate Frank Winfield Woolworth, and designed by Charles Pierrepont Henry Gilbert, one of several architects favored by New York’s industrialists during the Gilded Age. Woolworth gave the townhouses to each of his three daughters as wedding gifts. Six East 80th Street, the property Frederick now owns, belonged to the tycoon’s youngest daughter, Jessie. Woolworth was said to have wept on the day he gave Jessie away to James Donahue, the Irish-American scion of a less prominent family that made its money in the fat-rendering business. Donahue was a man of vices—gambling, booze, and young men, in particular—and Woolworth’s doubts about the pairing proved well placed. In 1931, during a luncheon at the couple’s home, the 44-year-old Donahue excused himself from the table and locked himself in the downstairs bathroom. He staggered out a few minutes later exclaiming, “I’ve done it.” Despondent over his finances and recently spurned by a young sailor, Donahue had gulped down seven mercury-bichloride pills. He died within days. Frederick acquired the property for $5 million in 1986, three years after cashing in his stock in the family company, Koch Industries, and in the throes of a frenetic buying spree of historic homes and artwork. Frederick’s longtime architect, Charles T. Young, spent the next decade restoring the townhouse to its former splendor, and in many cases, surpassing it. Frederick spared no expense. He continued a marble balustrade that had ended after the first floor up the staircase and through the remaining six floors of the house. He replaced the crumbling plaster walls with limestone from the quarries of Caen in northwestern France, the kind that would be found in a Parisian townhouse of the French Régence period. In one case, Frederick made structural alterations just to create enough wall space to hang one of the masterpieces of his art collection, widening a pair of stone columns to fit William-Adolphe Bouguereau’s The Abduction of Psyche. RELATED: 10 On-Screen Couples Who Have Also Played Family Members “Sotheby’s for years has been trying to take this away from me,” Frederick says, as he shows me around his home. “And I keep telling them, ‘I can’t move it. It’s part of the architecture of this room.’<U+2009>” Frederick’s office is located in what was James Donahue’s bedroom. Ornate paneling that once adorned the Palace of Versailles lines the walls. A bookcase, as in some murder-mystery thriller, conceals a hidden passageway, designed, Frederick explains, “so that the six servants in this house would not be aware of Mr. Donahue’s comings and goings.” It leads past a row of stained-glass windows inlaid with the initials of the Donahue clan, to what was Jessie Donahue’s bedroom and is now Frederick’s. Not that he actually sleeps there. Frederick spent millions getting every hand-wrought, filigreed detail just right, but he doesn’t actually live in the townhouse. When he’s in New York—and he moves frequently among his collection of homes, which includes Schloss Blühnbach, a palatial hunting lodge just south of Salzburg, Austria, that once belonged to Archduke Franz Ferdinand—he resides at 825 Fifth Avenue. He just entertains the occasional guest at the Woolworth mansion, his private museum. Despite the scale of his wealth and the opulence of his surroundings, Frederick also has a reputation for frugality, sometimes growing testy at his staff, if they add extra postage to letters and packages. He spent lavishly on refurbishing his homes, but he prefers taking the public bus in New York and typically flies commercial. One associate recalls strolling down East 80th Street with Frederick on a sweltering summer afternoon in the mid-1990s. Crossing Fifth Avenue, Frederick noticed a nickel in the middle of the crosswalk; it had been run over so many times that it was embedded in the asphalt. His companion looked on in shock as Frederick took out his keys, stooped down and began trying to pry the coin loose. The multi-millionaire continued to work as the traffic light changed. Traffic bore down and horns blared, but Frederick kept digging, finally dislodging the nickel. “I got it,” he said, holding the coin up with a beatific expression on his face. “I just was dumbfounded,” his companion recalled. (“I never pick up coins in the street,” Frederick responds, “despite this apocryphal account.”) Dressed in a navy blazer, striped shirt, and thin cobalt tie, Frederick moves through the rooms of his home like a curator, his arms folded behind him. “If you pull the carpet back, you’ll see a Versailles parquet,” he says, touring the dining room. He pauses to point out paintings by Alexandre-Evariste Fragonard, Edward Burne-Jones, and Gilbert Stuart; Aubusson carpets; a set of 10 mahogany dining-room chairs that once belonged to financier J. P. Morgan. In one bedroom, he shows off a canopied bed that he calls “the most important piece of furniture in the house.” It belonged to Marie Antoinette, a wedding gift from the mayor of Paris, when she married Louis XVI. “I’m amazed even to this day that I was able to get it out of France. I bought it in Monte Carlo, which may have been the reason.” He is at ease talking at length about every object in the house, and the intricacies of procuring or rehabilitating each of them. But when the topic turns briefly to his brothers, and whether they share his artistic sensibilities, Frederick tenses. “William does—David’s twin brother,” he replies. “He has a wonderful collection of all kinds of things.” Then he changes the subject. It’s no surprise that Frederick isn’t eager to talk about Charles and David. He and younger brother Bill spent nearly 15 years locked in a series of bare-knuckle legal brawls with their brothers, who they accused of cheating them on the 1983 sale of their Koch Industries stock, which together netted them $800 million. (In 1998, a jury deemed Koch Industries had misrepresented a refinery’s productivity in the buyout negotiations, but it also determined that any omissions were not material, so Frederick and Bill could not recoup the massive damages they sought.) Frederick displays one of his most treasured pieces on the top floor, in a sun-drenched, glass-enclosed conservatory that was once Jessie Donahue’s studio. On a pedestal beneath a circular skylight ringed with the signs of the zodiac sits a marble head wearing the headdress of an Egyptian pharaoh. The sculpture dates back to A.D. 130. “That is Antinous,” Frederick explains, “who was the lover of Emperor Hadrian . . . Antinous accompanied Hadrian on a voyage down the Nile and at some point they stopped. Antinous went swimming and drowned in the Nile. The emperor was so grief stricken that he decided to immortalize Antinous and name him god of the Nile—and required people to worship him.” When the Roman Empire fell, Christians destroyed statues and icons depicting Hadrian’s lover. “They very much resented having been ordered to worship the boyfriend of the emperor,” Frederick says. The marble head of Antinous, severed from a larger statue, was discovered in the 18th century in a swamp on the grounds of what was Hadrian’s estate in Tivoli. What attracts Frederick to the objects he collects is not always their aesthetic value, but the hidden tales they tell, which he enjoys recounting with the flair of a raconteur. “Do you know the story of Stanford White?” he inquires, gazing at a painting of the original Madison Square Garden, when it was located at Madison Avenue and 26th Street. White, the arena’s architect, was gunned down in its rooftop restaurant in 1906 by Harry Thaw, the son of a Pittsburgh railroad magnate. Thaw was consumed with jealousy over White’s past liaisons with Evelyn Nesbit, a former showgirl who had been the architect’s mistress before marrying Thaw. “He was obsessed with Stanford White’s previous relationship with Evelyn Nesbit,” Frederick says. “After they married he tormented her by asking her to reveal all the sexual positions that she had enjoyed with Stanford White. All that did was fuel his rage.” Frederick thinks of himself as a writer, and though he never plied this trade professionally, his collection provides an outlet for his natural gift as a storyteller. There was a time, however, when Frederick had his own ambitions of literary and theatrical acclaim. After moving to New York City’s West Village in his late 20s, Frederick had once approached John Mason Brown, an esteemed New York theater critic and author (as well as a fellow Harvard alum) for career advice. Frederick told Brown in a letter that he “hoped to be a playwright before too long and a drama critic much sooner.” But ultimately he never pursued these goals with much vigor, to the intense frustration of his industrious father. Frederick was the outlier among his rough-and-tumble, ultra-competitive brothers. While the three younger brothers took after their father, a John Wayne–like figure who made his first million building oil refineries in Stalin’s Soviet Union, he gravitated toward his mother’s artistic interests. Family patriarch Fred Koch strove to teach his sons the value of hard work, by subjecting them to grueling manual labor around the family’s compound in Wichita, Kansas, and on a handful of ranches he owned. Charles told Fortune magazine in 1997 that during a summer of forced labor on one of the family’s ranches as a teenager, Frederick had had a nervous breakdown, (“I have never had a ‘nervous breakdown,’” Frederick says.) “Father wanted to make all his boys into men and Freddie couldn’t relate to that regime,” Charles told The New York Times’ Leslie Wayne. “Dad didn’t understand and so he was hard on Freddie. He didn’t understand that Freddie wasn’t a lazy kid—he was just different.” When Frederick was in his 20s, it was an open secret among the family’s circle of friends in Wichita that he was gay. “We all knew Freddie was gay,” said someone who spent time with the family and their friends in the 1950s and 1960s. “You know, those things—especially in an environment like Wichita—were almost whispered. It was common knowledge.” Frederick could do little to relate to his father or win his approval. “Freddie was a sophisticate and a man of the world, in addition to the fact that he was gay,” says Koch family friend Nestor Weigand. “It wasn’t something that was easily accepted in those days.” (According to Frederick, he is not gay.) Frederick’s parents sent him away to boarding school at Pembroke Country Day in Kansas City in the eighth grade. He attended high school at Hackley, an elite private school, located in New York’s Hudson Valley, where he was the class valedictorian in 1951. “Freddie sort of segregated himself from the family very early on,” family friend and Wichita real-estate developer George Ablah has said. “I think everyone was more comfortable with that.” According to Bill, “Freddie wanted no part of the family and did his own thing.” During the Koch brothers’ childhood, discussion of Frederick caused noticeable discomfort among his brothers. “They just didn’t want Freddie’s name brought up,” said one family friend. “They knew there was something different about him. You didn’t hear much about Freddie at all . . . It was almost like he wasn’t part of the family.” In the 1960s, mention of Frederick even vanished from one of his father’s bios: “He and Mrs. Koch have three sons,” it read, “Charles, William, and David.” When Fred Koch died in 1967, he left his eldest son out of his will (though he had previously provided for him, with the creation of two trusts). According to court testimony from Charles, their father removed Frederick from his will because he had repeatedly stolen from him in the years before his death “and then lied about it when confronted with the evidence.” Frederick lifted traveler’s checks, cash, and an “air travel card” from their dad, Charles said; he also alleged in court records that his older brother forged his signature on their father’s Brooks Brothers charge account. Charles’s contempt for his bon vivant brother was apparent in court. “Over the years,” he testified, “I had accepted my father’s analysis of Freddie of not really being a whole person, of being a person who was amoral and not capable of true feelings towards other people.” (“I refute all of Charles’s allegations as a calculated campaign of vilification,” Frederick says. “He who would cast aspersions should be beyond reproach.”) Bill Koch told Fortune that Charles once resorted to a homosexual blackmail attempt to force Frederick to sell his shares in their family company, a charge Charles has denied. “Charles’s ‘homosexual blackmail’ to get control of my shares did not succeed for the simple reason that I am not homosexual,” Frederick says. RELATED: 19 Celebrities Married to Normal Folk Frederick was closest with his mother, Mary, with whom he shared a love of fine art, music, and theater. She took pride in her son’s quiet, prolific arts patronage, especially his funding of the Swan Theatre, a name Frederick says he chose “in tribute to Shakespeare, who was sometimes called the Swan of Avon.” In 1986, Mary Koch traveled to England to watch her son appear side by side with the Queen of England at the theater’s opening. During the 1980s, to house his growing collection of Victorian art, which was said to overrun warehouses on both sides of the Atlantic, Frederick is said to have envisioned creating a museum in London akin to New York’s Frick Collection. “Frederick Koch had the eye of a true connoisseur,” said London art dealer Julian Hartnoll, one of the agents Frederick enlisted to do his buying. “He did not follow the flash or the ostentatious preferring the academic, the intellectual, and the byways of art history, literature, and music.” Frederick proposed siting his gallery in historic St. John’s Lodge, a neoclassical villa located in London’s Regent’s Park. But his plans to overhaul the interior led to a protracted standoff with British cultural authorities, during which Frederick threatened to return to America with his collection of 19th-century art, a move one local architectural historian dubbed “crude bluff and blackmail.” The fact that the Brits did not grasp his vision perplexed him. “The lodge is deteriorating rapidly now,” Frederick fumed in the late mid-1980s. “If I don’t take it on, it will probably go to some millionaire Arab.” He wasn't far off the mark. The Sultan of Brunei eventually took it over. Fed up with bureaucratic wrangling and unwanted press attention, Frederick ultimately settled on a secondary location. Sutton Place was situated on more than 700 picturesque acres about a half hour’s drive from central London. A courtier to Henry VIII built the 55,000-square-foot Tudor mansion, in the early 16th century, and it once belonged to the reclusive American oil billionaire John Paul Getty. Through a charitable foundation, Frederick purchased Sutton Place for $12 million from another reclusive American owner: Stanley Seeger, whose fortune, like Frederick’s, derived from an industrial empire. Frederick embarked on an extensive $22 million restoration project. But even before completing it, he baffled the British art world, when he began selling off the Victorian masterpieces he’d spent the previous decade amassing. “It certainly smelled of a person who was over-extended,” said someone who knew him during the 1990s, adding, “It certainly appeared to me that it was going to pay the gardener.” But which one? He owned three other estates that required exorbitant upkeep. (Frederick’s aide-de-camp, John Olsen, denies that the sale of the paintings had anything to do with financial troubles. “There simply was not enough wall space for everything Mr. Koch purchased with the intent of exhibiting at Sutton Place,” he explains.) Finally, in 1999, Frederick put the newly restored home on the market for $40 million. Maintaining the large estate, which had a staff of 20, cost a small fortune, and according to Frederick, he wanted to move on to other projects. “I found that you don’t own the houses, the houses own you,” he says. “They make so many demands on you.” Sutton Place sat on the market until 2005, when a mysterious buyer purchased it through a middleman. Frederick later discovered the new owner was Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov, now number 40 on Forbes’s list of billionaires. “I got my investment back,” Frederick says with a trace of bitterness. Though he relinquished Sutton Place and, with it, his ambition for a museum dedicated to his art collection, his cultural legacy lives on in other venues. A trove of musical scores, manuscripts, historical documents, and artistic ephemera, much of which was snatched up anonymously from the auction market during the 1980s reappeared in the Frederick R. Koch Collection, now housed in Yale’s Beinecke Library. The collection includes everything from handwritten scores of Mozart, Schubert, and Stravinsky, to letters of W. H. Auden, Charles Baudelaire, and Marcel Proust, from poems by Jean Cocteau and Victor Hugo to manuscript drafts of Henry Miller and Oscar Wilde. “What struck me most was how he knew his collection in the most intricate detail,” said Vincent Giroud, the Beinecke’s former curator of modern books and manuscripts, who worked closely with Frederick to document the collection. “I’ve met a number of collectors who could be wonderful people and very generous, but are not necessarily knowledgeable about what they have. That’s not at all his case.” He added, “He has the mind of a scholar himself in many ways.” RELATED: 5 Actors Who Will Transform Themselves This Year Frederick lowers himself into an armchair in a second-floor sitting room. He has not spoken to the press in more than 25 years, since the British media descended on him like a pack of wolves. Even before that, he refused interviews and stayed conspicuously quiet as his feuding younger brothers savaged one another on the pages of national newspapers and magazines. “Shall we delve into Koch world?” he asks. But first a formality. He unclasps a clear plastic envelope and withdraws a crisp document. “If you would sign this, please.” It’s a contract requiring that “all writing pertaining to Frederick R. Koch, including personal subject matter revealed in research and interviews,” be submitted “for his approval.” No journalist could agree to these terms, and when I explain this, Frederick’s genial demeanor ices over. “My brothers and I,” he warns, “are practiced combatants in the field of public relations.” He shows me out into the January chill. Nearby, excavators are gnawing through concrete, as preliminary construction for the Met’s new David H. Koch Plaza gets under way. This article originally appeared at Vanity Fair.  Copyright 2014. Follow Vanity Fair on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
