Harold Cunningham/Getty ImagesThe stocks you're chatting about over wine aren't necessarily the best investment.Picking single equities seems almost quaint in these days of the mutual fund. Singling out a stock for your portfolio still makes sense, though, if you know how to select smart and you sift carefully through headline deals. One caveat remains true: "Stay away from them if you can't afford to lose the money," said Daniel Mazzola, an advisor with American Portfolios in Massapequa, N.Y., speaking at a recent investing panel. The panel, Selecting Individual Stocks, was held recently as part of National Financial Advisor Week in New York's Times Square. This event, which attracted hundreds of onlookers, featured financial advisors giving tips on personal finance, ranging from retirement saving to college funding. The panels also focused on how people can get the most out of advisors.  Interest in nailing the next big stock flared recently after the record $25 billion initial public offering for Chinese Web behemoth Alibaba, a pick that Mazzola noted has "an Internet name and sounds a little exotic." Don't write checks to your brokerage based solely on chatter. "We call [offerings like Alibaba] 'cocktail-party stocks,'" said co-panelist Andrew Aran, partner with Regency Wealth Management in Ramsey, N.J. "You get into it and it goes up and you tell your friends. Or you don't get into it and it goes down and you tell your friends." AP ImagesJack Ma, founder of Alibaba, which received a record IPO of $25 billion.Bargain equities are especially tricky, as moderator and USA Today money columnist John Waggoner said. Investors must know when a cheap stock is "truly a stinker" and how to spot the stock of "rotten companies that are getting slightly less rotten." Mazzola and Aran advised putting no money into individual stocks that you can't afford to lose. "If you have $2,000 to invest, you shouldn't be buying individual stocks," Aran said. "If you have $800,000, that's a different story." Among the panelists' pointers: The outlook does remain good for individual stocks, panelists agreed, at least for now. Aran predicted that the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 will reach "2,200 to 2,300 before this party's over." This article originally appeared at AdviceIQ.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
