She recorded a beat on the top and bottom lines, and the stock shot up 9% immediately after the close. Most of the good news came from Yahoo's stake in Alibaba, the Chinese auction giant. Yahoo's core underlying business — advertising — was mostly flat. Mostly flat, but not completely flat: Search was one bright spot. Search revenue ex-traffic acquisition costs was $444 million, up 9%. The rest of Yahoo continues to move sideways, however. This was, notably, yet another call on which Mayer trumpeted her editorial and mobile app moves while moving swiftly past the elephants in the room: The fact that topline GAAP revenues actually declined 1%, and the fact that the company still can't announce any revenue from Tumblr, the social media platform it bought for $1 billion a year ago. In the earnings release there is — again — no mention of revenue from Tumblr. At some point it would be nice to see a financial logic for that deal to appear in Yahoo's numbers. Yahoo / BIClick to enlarge: Mayer's massive coffee cup made a return to the earnings desk.CFO Ken Goldman admitted to investors that the company needed to be more transparent on Tumblr metrics going forward — so hopefully we'll see Tumblr numbers next quarter. Mayer said there was user growth on Tumblr. But there is no clarity on whether advertisers give a damn. While ex-TAC revenues are more important to Yahoo in terms of the company's finances, GAAP revenue is an interesting indicator of the size of Yahoo's entire business — and if it isn't going up then that's a problem for Yahoo. It means that Yahoo in a post-Alibaba environment would be a dismal beast indeed. Yahoo's earnings in equity was up 39% to $301 million. Mostly that's Yahoo's big stake in Alibaba, which will soon file for an IPO. Its stake in Yahoo Japan actually declined. The top and bottom lines are small but healthy beats for Yahoo — and that will be welcome news inside the purple palace. The pre-call revenue estimates were almost exactly flat from the year before. That's the main issue with Yahoo — where is the growth? YahooMarissa Mayer on her earnings call.Here are the main points from the investor slides: But here's the big picture — Mayer's biggest problem. The company is basically going sideways: Yahoo And now some numbers. Note that the growth is after traffic acquisition costs — the overall billings are still slightly in decline: Yahoo You can also see in there the Alibaba numbers — a big leap to $301 million. Here's something positive from the underlying ad business: Search is up in both price and volume — it's hard to make both those metrics go up at once, and that's a sign of relatively strong demand. YahooThere was also increased demand (but not prices) on the display side: Yahoo Here is the guidance: Yahoo Highlights from the Q&amp;A with Wall Street analysts: Mayer: A modest success this quarter. She produces this odd graphic showing where she thinks the company is: Yahoo It's a business-school type strategy slide. The unspoken argument here is that Yahoo's growth is still below market growth — meaning that a dollar invested in Yahoo instead of the general market actually destroys value, rather than creates it. Here's the growth in search: Yahoo Mayer underlines all the editorial talent she has brought to Yahoo's online magazines. Here's a look at Yahoo Gemini, its new ad placement interface. It's available thru Yahoo Ad Manager: Yahoo Here's how Yahoo's acquisitions fit into the company: Yahoo Here are Yahoo's most recent buys: Yahoo Toward the end, Mayer says Yahoo hired 300+ engineers in Q1 2014. So if you want a job, go to Yahoo. CFO Ken Goldman just admitted the company needs to provide more transparency around numbers from Tumblr. Yahoo is working on it, he says. But he doesn't provide any actual numbers. Mayer comes back on. She has this to say about Tumblr: 122% growth in Tumblr mobile engagement. Q1 advertising started web in-stream, and mobile in-stream. "150 top brands have a presence on Tumblr." But she doesn't give any hard dollar numbers. A "presence" on Tumblr is not the same as being a paying Tumblr client. Here's the Tumblr slide. It refers to daily active users on Tumblr: Yahoo Mayer is asked when we'll see growth: She declines to give a date, and talks about her investment in mobile, video and new products. "We really think this offers great opportunities for users and advertisers in the future and we think our Q1 results are indicative of some of the early signs of growth we can see." As the camera pans out at the end of the call, it reveals a bucket-sized coffee cup on Mayer's side of the desk. She had a gigantic coffee cup on her Q2 2013 call, too. Previously: There are general worries about the long term health of both the search and display ad businesses that are at the core of Yahoo. On the upside, Mayer has made several moves in mobile apps and online magazine and news content. So any sign of those paying off will be a big boost. Lastly, Alibaba will file for an IPO in the U.S. Yahoo owns a 24% stake in the company. The offering could raise $15 billion, and Yahoo would see a chunk of that. FREE AppDownload
