Wikimedia CommonsJoshua Tree National ParkAll U.S. markets will be closed on Monday to observe Martin Luther King Jr. Day. The rest of the week will be extremely light in terms of economic data. But this will also give folks time to think about their investments. Last week, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin managed to send chills through the markets with his warning about stocks. From Kostin: "The current valuation of the S&amp;P 500 is lofty by almost any measure, both for the aggregate market as well as the median stock: (1) The P/E ratio; (2) the current P/E expansion cycle; (3) EV/Sales; (4) EV/EBITDA; (5) Free Cash Flow yield; (6) Price/Book as well as the ROE and P/B relationship; and compared with the levels of (6) inflation; (7) nominal 10-year Treasury yields; and (8) real interest rates. Furthermore, the cyclically-adjusted P/E ratio suggests the S&amp;P 500 is currently 30% overvalued in terms of (9) Operating EPS and (10) about 45% overvalued using As Reported earnings." Yikes. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Everybody hates gold and the gold miners. But Gundlach thinks that's where money can be made. The median forecaster sees the yellow metal falling to $1,220/oz this year. He sees gold rallying to $1,350/oz. Gundlach also said that Chipotle should drop 30%, Apple could go to $600, Bitcoin will fall further, and Puerto Rican and JC Penney debt are money-makers for anyone willing to stomach tons of volatility. Economic Calendar Market Commentary "We believe that we are now entering the global synchronous phase of a long but bumpy recovery process that started in 2009," wrote Henry McVey, KKR's Head of Global Macro &amp; Asset Allocation. "However, unlike many other synchronized global recoveries, developed market central banks are—in aggregate—likely to remain accommodative in an attempt to offset some of the inherent volatility that accompanies de-leveraging cycles. Against this macro backdrop, our asset allocation view for 2014 is that investors should “Stay the Course,” retaining key overweight positions in global equities and alternatives, including private credit, special situations and real assets." FREE AppDownload
