REUTERS/Shannon StapletonNot all leaders follow their own advice. Zac Bissonnette explores that irony in his new book, "Good Advice from Bad People," which includes some fascinating examples from the business world. From infamous swindler Bernie Madoff's investing advice to leadership tips from Lehman Brothers CEO Richard Fuld, we've excerpted some of the highlights from Bissonnette's book. Fuld gave this speech as the CEO of Lehman Brothers, a year before his company's stock hit an all-time high. In 2008, Lehman entered the largest bankruptcy in history, after Fuld had led employees, investors, and lenders into dicey mortgages. It turns out he didn't know what he was talking about. In May 1985, Sculley joined Apple as its new CEO and quickly discovered that its founder, Steve Jobs, thought he was "bad for Apple." Sculley responded to this dissent by complaining to the board of directors and having Jobs stripped of all his management responsibilities. Five months later, Jobs left the company he created. Apple's board fired Sculley in 1993 after years of disappointing results. Jobs returned to Apple in 1996 and became CEO in 1997. The rebel that Sculley tried squashing, of course, transformed Apple from a has-been into the world's most profitable and innovative company. Madoff is the mastermind behind the largest Ponzi scheme in history. He fabricated trading records that showed high, steady, risk-free returns &mdash; the opposite of what came from his risky and unsuccessful trading strategies &mdash; and was able to lure in $65 billion from some of the world's most sophisticated investors. He was sentenced to 150 years in prison in 2009. Three weeks after giving that speech, Kozlowski resigned as CEO of Tyco after charges of tax evasion. As CEO, he got the nickname "Deal a Day Dennis" for the frequent acquisitions that led to consistent growth in revenue, earnings, and stock price. The company later admitted that they were used to artificially inflate earnings. Kozlowski was also charged with taking over $50 million in unauthorized bonuses, which he used to fund a gaudy, extravagant lifestyle. In 2005, he was sentenced to eight years in prison. "Chainsaw Al" personified the ruthlessly effective CEO in the early to mid-90s. He helped turn around a failing Scott Paper by trimming the fat, and when Sunbeam announced it hired him as CEO in 1996, the stock soared 50%. While it's good advice not to put limits on your dreams, Dunlap&nbsp;didn't respect the limits of the law. In 2002, it was discovered that at least $60 million of Sunbeam's 1997 profits were fraudulent, and&nbsp;as part of a settlement with the SEC, he agreed never to serve as an officer or director of a public company again. In the mid- to late 1990s, Pearlman was the king of the boy bands, having created the Backstreet Boys, *NSYNC, O-Town, and LFO. In 2006, he was exposed for having built his empire on a Ponzi scheme, owing investors $447 million. Unlike most Ponzi schemers, he actually had an enormously profitable business but decided to rip off his clients and investors with forged documents and inflated financials. By the time his book was released, the economy had taken a turn for the worse and his net worth was tanking as he fought bankruptcy for his overleveraged real estate empire, which Bissonnette asserts "was, of course, a product of his excessive cockiness." Trump bounced back from his downfall and reinvented himself as an omnipresent TV personality. Regardless of one's opinion of his business acumen, it's hard to argue that Trump has ever followed his own advice about being humble. When Whitmore took over as CEO of Kodak in 1990, he embraced a culture that was the complete opposite of the entrepreneurial approach he preached. During a meeting with Bill Gates, presumably about finding ways to renew the company as it was losing market share to Polaroid, Whitmore fell asleep. Kodak pushed him out of the company in 1993 for failing to cut costs and boost earnings. In 1986, an 18-year-old Minkow became the youngest CEO of a publicly traded company with his carpet cleaning company ZZZZ Best. Just a year later it turned out that he was just another Ponzi schemer, who had lost $100 million of investors' money and was sent to jail. He was released early from prison in 1995, emerging as an evangelical pastor and fraud investigator. But this zeal for justice turned out to be another front, and Minkow went back to prison in 2011 for securities fraud. FREE AppDownload
