Getty / Justin Sullivan eBay CEO John Donahoe eBay announced its Q1 earnings this afternoon.  Here are the numbers: That's a beat for both EPS and revenue, with revenue increasing 14% compared to the same period in 2013. The company's net income was $899 million.  The company's guidance for the next quarter is non-GAAP EPS of between $0.67 and $0.69 and net revenue between $4.32 and $4.42 billion.  The stock is down just over 4% after-hours, likely because the guidance was underwhelming to investors — analysts expected EPS of $0.70.  eBay also said that it plans to move $6 billion of overseas profit back to the U.S. It's been an interesting quarter for eBay, as the company dealt with a very public back-and-forth with activist investor Carl Icahn, who accused several board members, including Marc Andreessen, of not having eBay's best interests in mind, and urging PayPal to spin off as a separate company. The fight ended when eBay agreed to Icahn's suggestion to appoint David Dorman to its board. On eBay's call, CEO John Donahoe said that "despite the potential distractions of our proxy fight, our teams stayed focused and delivered strong results." PayPal's total payment volume grew 27% and it gained 5.8 million new active registered accounts, ending the quarter at 148 million, up 16%.  Here's a chart of eBay's revenues: eBay Here's a chart showing the dollar value of all goods sold over the eBay Marketplace: Business Insider Intelligence  Here's the full release: Global commerce platform and payments leader eBay Inc. (EBAY) today reported that revenue for the first quarter ended March 31, 2014, increased 14% to $4.3 billion, compared to the same period in 2013. Non-GAAP earnings increased 11%, to $899 million or $0.70 per diluted share, over the prior year, driven by strong top line growth. A first quarter GAAP loss of ($2.3) billion or ($1.82) per diluted share, was due to a discrete tax charge of approximately $3.0 billion. The role the company plays in global commerce continued to grow, with total company enabled commerce volume (ECV) increasing 24% in the first quarter to $58 billion. Mobile ECV advanced 70% to $11 billion representing 19% of volume. Mobile downloads since inception exceeded 240 million and attracted 6.5 million new customers in the quarter. Cross-border trade grew 24%, representing $13 billion, or 22%, of total company ECV. “We delivered a strong first quarter, with enabled commerce volume up 24 percent and revenue up 14 percent,” said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. “We are committed to delivering sustainable shareholder value and focusing on what matters most to our investors. We are executing our growth plans, capitalizing on the synergies in our portfolio and aggressively executing our $5.0 billion share buyback program. Today, we also announced a non-cash tax charge to facilitate repatriation of $6.0 billion net in foreign earnings, increasing our available U.S. cash and enhancing our financial flexibility." PayPal net total payment volume (TPV) grew 27% with Merchant Services volume up 32% and on-eBay volume up 15%. Revenue grew to $1.8 billion. PayPal gained 5.8 million new active registered accounts to end the quarter at 148 million, up 16%. Global on-eBay penetration increased to 78.9%. PayPal continued to invest in its credit offerings, providing flexibility for consumers and merchants while improving its ability to manage transaction expense and reinvest in the business to accelerate growth. eBay Marketplaces gross merchandise volume (GMV) grew 12%, with the U.S. up 11% and International up 13%. Revenue grew to $2.2 billion. Marketplaces gained 4.7 million new buyers to end the quarter with 145 million active buyers, up 14%. Top rated sellers in the company’s three largest markets grew their same-store-sales 19% and offered free shipping on 53% of transactions across those markets. The selection of items available on Marketplaces grew to over 650 million listings, including both platform and non-platform offerings, reflecting the success of improved selling initiatives, particularly on mobile. eBay Enterprise gross merchandise sales (GMS) grew 16%. Revenue grew to $269 million. Enterprise enabled its clients to grow same-store sales 11%. eBay’s Magento business, which primarily services small to medium-sized businesses, was integrated into eBay Enterprise’s offerings, providing merchants of all sizes a highly flexible end-to-end solution. First Quarter 2014 Financial Highlights (presented in millions, except per share data and percentages)   Other Selected Financial and Operational Results Business Outlook FREE AppDownload
