---- Chairman Murray, Ranking Member Sessions, and members of the committee, thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today to discuss the 2014 economic outlook and ways in which the Congress can enhance prospects for broad-based economic growth in the future. My name is David Rosenberg and I am the Chief Economist &amp; Strategist at Gluskin Sheff, a global wealth management firm based in Toronto, Canada. I have 30 years’ experience in economic analysis, largely in the financial sector, including a 10-year stint at Merrill Lynch, initially as the Toronto-based Chief Canadian Economist and Strategist, and then as Chief North American Economist in New York from 2002 to 2009. Over the past six months or so, I have become more optimistic over the durability of the economic expansion, and see the risks of a recession as minimal. The leading economic and financial indicators I pay most attention to tell me we can probably expect real GDP growth of 3% this year and slightly more than that in 2015. The most pronounced tailwinds are actually the fading of the many headwinds that held back the recovery for the past four years. Notable among these headwinds: 1. The end of the fiscal tourniquet at the state and local government level. 2. The end, at least for now, of the budgetary restraint at the Federal level. 3. What appears to be the end of the painful deleveraging cycle at the consumer level; and it is encouraging to see that the entire parabolic surge in debt-to-asset, debt-to-income and debt-to-net worth ratios that we saw during the household credit bubble from 2002 to 2008 completely unwind over the past five years. Gluskin Sheff 4. Considering that most real estate agents consider 6 months’ supply of unsold homes to be a balanced market, the current national housing unsold inventory backlog, which is now sitting at a tight 5 months’ supply, leaves me comforted that homebuilding will continue to contribute to the economic expansion. Housing has not been a headwind for years, but the sector should still play a key supportive role for the economic expansion this year. 5. The final headwind that has ended is the European recession. We are seeing signs of a pulse along the periphery, as tentative as they may be. Even a fragile recovery is far better than a contraction, which is what we endured over the past three years in a part of the world whose share of global GDP is as large as the United States. A return to European growth will act as an important offset to the sudden slowing and instability we are now seeing in the Emerging Market region. So with all that uplifting economic commentary, the question is what can go wrong and what is it that we could be missing? My principal concern actually comes down more to what I am seeing on the supply side of the economy as opposed to the demand side. Let me explain. When economists discuss their economic outlook, right away they talk about their GDP growth forecasts. But GDP is not the only measure of economic activity even though it is the one that we primarily focus on. GDP is all about spending — consumer spending, housing spending, business spending, government spending and the like. But there is also the supply side of the economy which receives scant attention but is equally important, and the reason it is ignored is because the Commerce Department doesn’t report on ‘aggregate supply’ every quarter as it does with ‘aggregate demand’ via the GDP report – for aggregate supply, we have to actually roll up our sleeves and do the work ourselves. The inputs that go into the supply side of the economy are basically two-fold: productivity growth and labor force growth. FREE AppDownload
