 I once bought 20 custom suits in just over a week. Why? Well, back in 2007 when I founded my first business, A Tailored Suit, I needed a manufacturing partner. I wanted to work with an established tailoring company or a group of tailors that could help me grow my business. My vision was that I was going to be the front end and they were going to be the back end – together we’d make a splash in the custom clothing world. Unfortunately it didn’t work out that way (I did find success – just not in custom clothing). Now I don’t regret that decision one bit – I wasn’t going to go out there and build or buy a factory. However in a short span of time I needed to test these tailors’ skills. I wanted to make sure that these tailors would be able to deliver what they promised. In about seven days I seriously met with over a hundred tailors (no joke!) mostly in Hong Kong and Bangkok- cluster cities where some of the world’s best tailors are known to be based. I also traveled to London and New York as I wanted to look at some of the best suits in the market. In the middle of all of that travelling and all of those meetings I managed to take away 5 important lessons. These lessons are sure to help you build your wardrobe. Allow me to start with this premise: Building a classic wardrobe takes time. I consider myself pretty knowledgeable on the subject of men’s clothing having read multiple books and generally conducting much research. However I still found myself making numerous mistakes by attempting to build a full wardrobe on such a short amount of time. This is partly because of these reasons which are also the 5 things I learned: Out of those 20 custom suits that I purchased only two remain in my wardrobe. The fact is about ten of those suits weren’t up to my quality standards. It is also very fair to say that what I was drawn to then and what I like now have changed drastically. The two suits that I still wear are the ones that were “simplest." I had them made in classic worsted wool fabrics- navy and charcoal and their styling was timeless. My point? Your style will evolve over time so stick with menswear that has stood the test of time. Classics are classic for a reason- they never go out of style and will still be on trend year after year. This saves you money and time as you’re not having to reload your wardrobe. Because I didn’t have a lot of time to spare I lost the opportunity to negotiate and bargain with these tailors. I ended up buying everything at full retail prices. I overpayed and wasted about $3,000 to $5,000! If you have the time (about 12 months) you can actually build a timeless wardrobe very affordably. The way to do that is to spend time finding sales, thrifting, comparing prices and just looking for good deals. Everyone has a case of wanting it all- this is where adding too many details comes in. Don’t make this mistake – in fact the most elegant and timeless outfits in menswear such as black tie are incredibly simple! You may love checked fabric, slanted hacking ticket pockets, peak lapels, gold buttons, and elbow patches…….but don’t try putting all of this into one coat. If you add in too many details – especially ones that contradict each other in formality you’ll end up creating a bad suit…….or at best one that is not at all versatile. Just like cooking- if you add every spice you can think of you’ll end up with a dish no one wants. Granted some of my bad suits were not entirely my fault. I was also at the receiving end of not so good advice that steered me in the wrong direction. Be careful of salesmen who will say anything just to get a sale or even tailors who don’t really have a clear understanding of fit and fabric. Look for a menswear rep who understands fit, function and fabric. And when you find them – stick with them and send them referrals! All of us have different budgets and priorities but one of the most important things I learned is that if your finances allow it work with the best. In the long run this will save you money AND time.   One of my biggest frustrations was the time I had to spend going back and forth with a manufacturer who was constantly sending me clothing with errors. I understand the occasional mistake, but the person yu work with has to own up and be willing to fix and get better/reduce error through better quality control. The best decision I made was to pay a 25% premium for the best tailor in a city – immediate errors were not only reduced, but he also made suggestions that improved my vision of the final product. That is what you pay extra for – an artist and engineer who can help you create a suit or sport jacket better than you could have designed alone. Quality custom suits are certainly not cheap but to the right man they are worth the investment. Don’t waste your money and take the lessons I learned and use them to save yourself from headache……. …..and 18 useless suits!   This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
