ShutterstockFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Investors Are Betting On A US Energy Boom, Even As Oil Continues To Plummet (Reuters)  "US investors are zeroing in on exchange-traded funds that track master limited partnerships as a way to bet on long-term North American energy boom even as oil prices slide, convinced that these funds look relatively cheap and promise growth," reports Ashley Lau.  These MLPs invest in energy infrastructure such as pipelines and storage facilities — which are not as significantly affected by a decline in oil prices. "MLPs are in a good spot," Rob Glownia, quantitative analyst with RiverFront Investment Group, told Reuters. A Small Firm Is Challenging New York After Luring Away Talent From Powerhouse Rivals (The Wall Street Journal)  Raymond James, a small St. Petersburg, Florida, firm, just opened its first New York office and is aiming to compete with the financial powerhouses. The firm "will be run by a team of brokers led by Howard Franzblau who were lured away from JP Morgan Securities, where they had managed nearly $1 billion in assets and generated $6.7 million a year in fees and commissions," reports Michael Wursthorn. Even though Raymond James is still small relative to its big city rivals, the firm has been extremely ambitious as of late: they've also opened branches in Boston, Seattle, Portland and others recently and are looking to grow further. Merrill Is Changing Up Its Adviser Pay For The Next Year (Wealth Management)  Merrill Lynch came out with of a list of changes that will be happening to adviser pay, including "enhanced payouts for new fee-based assets and new clients, while eliminating provisions on mass affluent accounts and reducing payouts on bank deposits," reports Megan Leonhardt. This is something that is rarely received well by advisers. Even if the change doesn't directly affect someone, it still signifies a curtailing of an adviser's ability to manage client relationships. "There's no question there was handwriting on the wall here," consultant and recruiter Mindy Diamond told Wealth Management. "I can tell you top teams have rallied against policies like this. It's about control." For The First Time Since 2009, Fiscal Policy Won't Be A Drag On Growth (Charles Schwab) "Budget plans for the world's major economies in 2015 show that for the first time since 2009, fiscal policy won't be a drag on economic growth," writes Jeffrey Kleintop. Over the last few years, fiscal policy has made monetary policy less effective. However, without the significant pull, monetary policy should be even more effective, which should lead to a boost to economic growth in 2015.  Investors Shouldn't Fear The Fed (Advisor Perspectives) "Investors should not fear the Fed," writes Scott Brown. "The first hike in short-term interest rates should be views as a natural consequence of the improvement seen in the overall economy." "There is some danger that the markets might overreact [from investors' fears], but the Fed is likely to take that overreaction into account as it considers possible further action," he adds. Right now investors are incredibly anxious as they wait for the rate hike — especially following the stellar November jobs report. Fed officials are expected to decide monetary policy based on their interpretations of the job market data. FREE AppDownload
