Getty ImagesThis post is sponsored by Lincoln Financial Group.  Travel plans, holiday parties, gift lists, winter coats ... Yes, that means 2014 is coming to an end. As you sit down to reflect on the past year and prepare to ring in 2015, you may feel like ignoring your financial situation for now. But the end of the year is the perfect time to evaluate your spending and prepare for the year ahead. Whether you're checking to see how well you measured up against this year's financial goals or updating your portfolio, here are a few key financial steps you should be sure to check off your list before the new year.   Take a look at your credit card and bank statements from 2014. Did you go out to eat a lot more than you expected? Or maybe you didn't travel as much as you had hoped? Based on that analysis, it's time to set a budget for 2015. Write down your financial goals now — weekly, monthly, quarterly, maybe all three — and do your best to stick to them. Maybe that means opening up a new savings account, or paying down debt and cutting down on frivolous spending. Whatever the case, be sure to post the goals someplace you can see them, so that you can keep yourself in check throughout the year.  Tax season may not be here for another few months, but it's always good to get a head start. Now is the perfect time to start collecting important tax documents and receipts and to meet with your accountant. He or she can offer valuable time-sensitive advice, such as selling stocks to rebalance your portfolio, deferring income, contributing to retirement accounts, or donating to charity for a tax write-off.   Using a Flexible Spending Account to set aside pre-tax dollars for heathcare expenses is a great way to save hundreds of dollars in taxes, but it can also be a way to waste hundreds of dollars if you fail to use it. Unlike Health Spending Accounts, which roll over each year, FSAs have a "use it or lose it" policy. If you've been holding off on buying glasses, getting dental work, or visiting the doctor, now is the time to do it.  A lot can happen in a year: Stocks can go up or down, bonds lose value, and certain assets may outperform others. It's important to reevaluate your investments once or twice a year — whether they're mutual funds, ETFs, individual stocks, or some combination of all three — to be sure your asset allocations reflect your goals and intended risks. Review all of your target investment goals with the help of a financial adviser to stay on track. If you've experienced any life changes such as marriage, divorce, a new baby, or a death in the family, it may be time to update your tax withholding with your company's HR department. By adjusting your number of dependents, you could see a boost (or reduction) in your take-home pay. Talk to your accountant about which withholding works best for your situation.  Donating to charity is a great way to give and receive this holiday season. While you can only deduct a fraction of what you donate, it's still the perfect opportunity to save some money and help those in need. And in many cases it doesn't even require your giving away cash. By donating appreciated securities (stocks, bonds, and mutual funds), you can avoid paying a capital gains tax and still gain a tax deduction. Talk to your financial adviser about the best way to go about this. Just be sure to do it prior to the Dec. 31 deadline.  Look over your premiums for all your insurance coverage, including health, auto, home and even life insurance. Maybe you're considering getting surgery next year and could use a bump in coverage. Or you've noticed you could be paying less in car insurance if you switch to a competitor. Do your research now to ensure your insurance will meet your needs for the upcoming year.  Learn more about how to take charge of your finances on Lincoln Financial Group's website.   Find out more about Sponsored Content. FREE AppDownload
