@MarkitEconomicsConfidence in Germany is crumbling. The ZEW investor confidence survey index plunged to 44.3 in August from 61.8 a month ago. This was much worse than the 54.0 expected by economists. To make things worse, the expectations index crashed to 8.6 from 27.1. This was the lowest reading since December 2012. Economists were expecting 17.0. "In one line: Grim, as slump in investor sentiment deepens," said Pantheon Economics' Claus Vistesen. "Given the recent sharp drawdown in equities, a drop in sentiment was expected, but the decline was larger than anticipated, reinforcing downside risk to the economy." Some of this deterioration is likely due to the escalating conflict with Russia, which recently imposed a ban on food imports from the European Union. "We expect the escalation of the Russian Ukrainian conflict as well as the persisting political turmoil in the Middle East to have a negative impact on the market environment," said Henkel CEO Kasper Rorsted earlier Tuesday. Based in Dusseldorf, Henkel supplies the world with a variety of consumer goods ranging from laundry detergent to toothpaste. The economic data out of Germany has been astonishingly bad this month, highlighted by sharp drops in industrial production and factory orders. "All Europe has been affected by these tensions as well as by the stalling of the German economy," said Cumberland Adviors' Bill Witherell on Friday. "The Italian economy, for example, appears to be slipping into recession. The French economy also has failed to establish sustainable growth. While the Spanish economy is seen as having been transformed by its structural reforms, industrial production in Spain fell by -0.8% month-to-month in June, following a -0.6% drop in May." "The German ZEW survey suggests the euro-area economy will continue to slow through the first half of next year," said Bloomberg economists David Powell and Niraj Shah. "That will provide ammunition for the proponents of quantitative easing at the European Central Bank." FREE AppDownload
