Star5112 via FlickrThere are a few, who move toward the sounds of chaos.  Ready to respond at a moment’s notice,  And when time comes,  They are the first to move toward the sound of tyranny ... injustice ... and despair. They are forged ... in the crucible of training. They are The Few. The Proud. The Marines. -Recruitment video, US Marine Corps The US Marine Corps has a long and deserved outstanding reputation for bravery, purpose, and honor. They exemplify all the best characteristics of our country. In this note, I am not equating in any way Marines’ jobs, their duties, and the risks they take to protect the United States with anyone’s job in the financial markets. We have all worked with financial professionals who consider themselves “macho” or “alphas”, but realistically anyone in our industry is minor league when compared to a Marine. However, there seems to be a message for investors in the Marines’ current recruitment video regarding whether one would “move toward the sounds of chaos”. It seems that most investors have historically run away from chaos, and they seem to be doing it again. Stock market volatility is always a scary thing. Investors nearing retirement fear their nest eggs will evaporate. Younger investors saving for a home or a child’s college education fear their families’ futures might be in doubt. However, history suggests that allowing volatility to overrule a good investment plan tends to lead to poor performance. It’s not volatility itself that generally leads to poor longer-term performance, but rather it appears to be investors’ emotional reactions to volatility that ultimately lead to poor performance. Chart 1 below compares the 20-year investment performance of the so-called “average investor” to the performance of roughly twenty asset classes and sub-asset classes. Many investors probably have some sort of investment plan that likely includes many of these various asset categories. The performance of the typical investor over this time period is shockingly poor. The average investor has underperformed every category except Asian emerging market and Japanese equities. The average investor even underperformed cash (listed here as 3-month t-bills)! The average investor underperformed nearly every asset class. They could have improved performance by simply buying and holding any asset class other than Asian emerging market or Japanese equities. Thus, their underperformance suggests investors’ timing of asset allocation decisions must have been particularly poor, i.e., investors consistently bought assets that were overvalued and sold assets that were undervalued. They bought high and sold low. When chaos occurred, investors ran away. RBA Stock market volatility has increased, and investors are acting in typical fashion. They are running away. Chart 2 shows the rolling 12-month flows into US equity mutual funds. Investors have now reduced their US equity exposure for thirteen straight weeks. Consider chart 2 within the context of chart 1. Investors seem to be acting emotionally rather than investing with discipline. RBA Our motto at RBA is Uncertainty = OpportunitySM. History suggests that the best investment opportunities are in asset classes that investors shun. We strongly feel investors’ ongoing fear of US equities continues to offer substantial opportunity. We aren’t nearly as brave as Marines, but we do try to help our clients by looking for opportunities in investment chaos. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
