Feng Li/Getty ImagesPeople in Beijing celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year in January, 2014.Recently I’ve experienced what it’s like to sit on the sidelines instead of being in the race. As an avid runner, I’ve rarely missed a day of hitting the pavement. So you can imagine my despair when an injury recently laid me up for eight weeks. In anticipation of my next marathon in a far off place, Africa to be specific, I thought of investors sitting out their own race in emerging market (EM) stocks. While it’s true that the asset class has taken a bit of a beating in the past few years — largely due to the “taper tantrum” and growing concerns about the state of China’s economic health (more on this in an upcoming Blog post) — the race is on. Year to date, broad EMs are outperforming their developed market counterparts in the U.S. and beyond. And though EM inflows have slowed down a bit from early summer highs amid concerns about rising U.S. rates, many investors continue to embrace EMs. Emerging markets can be an important source of growth potential and diversification for many investors’ portfolios, and I fear many people are significantly under-allocated. They are sitting out the race. As I discussed last time, there are a number of reasons my colleagues and I are convinced we’re at an attractive re-entry point for EMs even after the recent rally. I’ll highlight three of them here: While my colleagues and I generally advocate a selective approach to EM given diverging fundamentals and policy outlooks among countries, and we particularly like EM Asia, we know that many investors want to take a broader approach. So how can you nimbly capture the broader emerging markets opportunity? We suggest looking to exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which provide a quick and easy way to gain all types of market exposures. ETFs are simple to trade, relatively low cost and tax efficient. However, it’s important to know that not all ETFs are the same. Factors such as exposure, which is determined by the underlying index, and the portfolio management (yes, index funds have portfolio managers, too) can have a meaningful impact on returns. For example, unlike broad EM ETFs that cover only large- and mid-cap stocks, the iShares Core MSCI Emerging Markets ETF (IEMG) covers large-, mid- and small-cap companies — around 99% of the investable EM market (as defined by MSCI) across 21 countries. The addition of small-caps can make a difference: over the past five years, that segment has outperformed mid- and large-cap stocks. Importantly, the MSCI EM Investable Market Index includes a large weighting to Korea, a country not represented in all EM indexes. IEMG has also never paid capital gains, making it more tax-efficient than comparable mutual funds. At the same time, the fund is backed by the expert risk management and analytics of BlackRock. All in all, we believe the fund is a smart way to get back into the race. FREE AppDownload
