REUTERS/Julien MuguetBNP Paribas Chief Executive Jean-Laurent Bonnafe.For weeks there have been reports that BNP Paribas, the largest bank in France, would face a massive fine and be barred from trading in dollars for violating U.S. sanctions. Now it's official. The bank will pay $8.8 billion in addition to pleading guilty to sanctions violation charges, according to Bloomberg. A Manhattan prosecutor has charged the bank with conspiracy and falsifying business records. That's a state charge, while the charges BNP is paying this fine for are federal. Check out the settlement provisions below: In addition to monetary penalties, NYDFS required other significant regulatory sanctions for BNPP in order for the Bank to retain its New York Branch license. These included accountability – including terminations – for individual executives involved in the misconduct and the suspension of U.S. dollar clearing for business lines in which the misconduct centered. Under the agreement, BNP Paribas shall implement a one year-long suspension of U.S. Dollar clearing services through its New York Branch or any U.S. BNPP affiliate or any bank in which it has a controlling interest. BNPP shall not seek to avoid or circumvent the Suspension by moving, or causing to be moved, any client relationship to any other branch or affiliate or business line of BNPP. The Suspension shall begin on January 1, 2015 and terminate on December 31, 2015 and shall encompass the following: Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for oil and gas finance business at BNPP Geneva;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for oil and gas finance business at BNPP Paris;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for oil and gas finance business at BNPP Singapore;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for Trade Finance business at BNPP Milan;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for oil and gas-related clients at BNPP Rome;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing of deposits by unaffiliated third-party banks at BNPP LondonIn addition, BNP Paribas shall, for a period of two years, prohibit all U.S. dollar clearing as a correspondent bank for unaffiliated third-party banks in New York and London. Among other tasks, the monitor installed by DFS at BNPP will review the U.S. dollar clearing suspension at the Bank. In addition to helping ensure compliance with that suspension, the monitor’s review will help inform the potential imposition and degree of similar penalties by DFS at other banks – where appropriate. Superintendent Lawsky thanked the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, the U.S. Department of Justice, the New York County District Attorney’s Office, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury for their work and cooperation in the BNP Paribas investigation. FREE AppDownload
