DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe Properties432 Park will tower over the neighboring buildings once it's completed.At 1,396 feet, 432 Park will be the tallest residential building in the Western Hemisphere when it's completed in 2015 — but it's not just its size that's impressive.  We recently saw renderings of the apartment building's interiors, and the designs are magnificent. Designer Deborah Berke says her focus was to make the most of the apartments' perch above the city. Double-height ceilings and beautiful oak flooring are highlights, while huge square windows provide an unparalleled view.   This is just one in a series of super-tall buildings rising on the southern end of Central Park, an area that's already earned its "Billionaires' Belt" nickname. These skyscrapers are so tall they needed approval from the Federal Aviation Administration before construction could start.  432 Park, however, will be the tallest.   The building has two penthouses, one on the 96th floor that sold for $95 million and another on the 95th, currently priced at $85 million.  The building's architect Rafael Viñoly made news back in September when his Walkie Talkie building wreaked havoc on London's streets, emitting a reflection so hot it melted cars and literally fried eggs on the sidewalk. But if these renderings are any indication, this building should be more of a success.  From the outside, rows of six 100-square-foot windows give the building the square look of a waffle iron.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesInside, Berke's design is just as geometric. The huge windows are in a straight line from the front door, making the most of the apartment's perch above the city.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesAccording to Berke, the oak herringbone floors are a take on Park Avenue's more traditional apartment buildings. DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe kitchens will be outfitted with sleek marble countertops and stainless steel appliances.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesBut the kitchen's best feature has to be this 10-foot-long marble breakfast bar framed against the window. Just imagine enjoying your morning coffee here, with all of Manhattan sprawled out below you.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe master suite's floor plan was designed so that the bed would be perfectly aligned with the window, offering the best views possible first thing in the morning.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe master suite has separated his and hers bathrooms. Looking north from the marble-covered shower, you'll get a peek of Central Park and the Upper East Side. DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesAnd to the south, views of the Chrysler Building, the Empire State Building, and the Freedom Tower can all be enjoyed from this free-standing tub.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe Properties432 Park will dramatically change the skyline around Central Park once it's completed in 2015.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesListen to designer Deborah Berke discuss her renderings and concept below.  FREE AppDownload
