The two spoke at Societe Generale’s annual research conference in London on Jan. 14. Edwards is the firm’s global strategist. Grice is the director of research at Edelweiss Holdings, a Zurich-based investment manager. Prior to that, Grice worked alongside Edwards at Societe Generale. “We are one recession, one slip away from outright deflation, both in the euro zone and in the U.S.,” Edwards said. That would adversely affect equities, he said. If that message wasn’t sufficiently foreboding, Grice warned of a societal breakdown that would be far more disruptive. The financial markets measure trust through yield, according to Grice. Investors should not be lulled into assuming today’s record-low yields (in both equities and bonds) imply similarly low degrees of risk. That is incongruous with current political developments, he said. “It is wrong. It is the last hurrah,” Grice said. “This is not just an economic but a social phenomenon.” Beware a deflationary bust Edwards cited a number of indicators indicative of impending deflation. “Actual inflation is crumbling away downwards,” he said. Both core and headline inflation – including measures of food and energy – are trending lower in the U.S. and the euro zone, according to Edwards. He claimed that the European Central Bank is not worried about this and, in fact, might believe deflation would help Spain or Italy become more competitive. Edwards said this line of reasoning was “ludicrous,” given the debt burdens those two countries bear. Weakness in the U.S. labor markets is another indicator. Edwards cited a recent commentary by PIMCO’s Bill Gross, who wrote that household employment, which has been a reliable leading indicator of non-farm payrolls, has been very weak for the last year – running at a pace of approximately 100,000 new jobs per month. Economists’ projections for inflation have trended down steadily over the last year, according to data Edwards presented. But in the U.S., economists continue to expect inflation above 2%, which he said is seriously disconnected from the data. Edwards sarcastically remarked that he knows there is a deflation problem when, in his own country, the Bank of England was able to hit its inflation target of 2% for the first time in almost four years. But investors remain confident in the central banks’ ability to avert deflation, which Edwards said explains why markets have not priced in this scenario. Japan will pay a key role in the oncoming deflation, according to Edwards. “Japan is fiscally bust and they have no option but to print, print and print,” he said. That will weaken the yen, and Japan will export its deflation to the rest of the world. Other Asian exporters – Edwards mentioned Korea and Thailand – will be forced to weaken their currencies, pushing more deflation into the developed markets. A similar phenomenon occurred in 1995-97, according to Edwards, when Japan’s weakening of the yen triggered the Asian crisis. “You will see waves of deflation coming into the U.S. and the euro zone at a time when profits are already stagnant or slightly falling,” he said. That will pressure companies based in the developed markets. Corporate cutbacks are the key risk of a recession, he said. Cuts in investment and inventories will be a precursor to falling profits and headcount reductions. Odds of a recession are increasing, Edwards said, as the current recovery nears its sixth anniversary. He said the median length of economic recoveries has been only 36 months. Our minds are “polluted,” he said, because the last three cycles were lengthened due to central bank intervention. Profits, labor costs and productivity in the U.S. have been a “big fat zero,” Edwards said. “That is all associated with a cycle which is already long in the tooth.” Indeed, Edwards said that sentiment regarding inflation could trigger lower equity prices. Inflation expectations are firmly anchored between 1.5% and 2.5%, he said, and if inflation drops below 1.5%, “you can get a massive equity market reaction.” That sentiment has been reinforced by the market’s belief that central banks will ease at the first hint of deflation, Edwards said, and that will buoy the prices of “risk assets.” But Edwards said one of the most important developments in 2013 was that commodity prices fell, despite the third round of quantitative easing (QE). “It is wrong to assume that equities will always go up if there is a QE4 or QE5,” Edwards said. Fundamentals drive equities, Edwards said, and the current secular bear market can “break” easily. He cited a number of measures – including Shiller’s CAPE and Tobin’s Q – that indicate overvaluation. “I would expect in the next recession to bottom at about 7.5-times trough earnings,” he said. “That is why I still remain so bearish.” “If you invest at very expensive valuations you are condemned to poor long-term returns,” he said. Even though his ice age thesis is imperiled by the recent convergence of cumulative equity and bond returns, Edwards – citing research by John Hussman – warned that a few years of equity gains can be easily wiped out in a few months of bad performance. Edwards offered a final omen of poor prospective market performance – the appointment of Janet Yellen. Tongue-in-cheek, he showed what he considers a “guaranteed” relationship between market returns and the height of Fed chairpersons. Edwards’ pick for Fed chairman would have been Magic Johnson, who at 6’10” would have assured good long-term performance.    FREE AppDownload
