Thomson ReutersA woman holding an umbrella is reflected in an electronic stock quotation board outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Wayne Cole SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian stocks fell broadly on Wednesday while the U.S. dollar held firm after a slump on Wall Street and tensions over Ukraine instilled a mood of risk aversion across markets. Geopolitical concerns overshadowed upbeat U.S. economic data which included a spike in service-sector activity to a nine-year peak and a surprisingly large increase in factory orders. Yet there was potentially positive news for the global economic outlook as oil prices continued their slide, with Brent crude hitting its lowest in nine months. Higher energy prices essentially act as a tax on consumers and businesses, so the drop should give a fillip to spending power and demand. For now, the drag from Wall Street was too much for regional markets and MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  slipped 0.5 percent. In China, the CSI300  of the leading Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share listings shed 1 percent. Japan's Topix  gave up 0.9 percent, while the Nikkei  fell 1 percent. Index heavyweight SoftBank  slid 3.8 percent on reports its U.S. subsidiary Sprint had dropped its bid to acquire No. 4 U.S. carrier T-Mobile because of regulatory hurdles. Sprint's shares  slid 11 percent after hours, while T-Mobile Inc  lost 8 percent. In another failed bid, Twenty-First Century Fox , the media company controlled by Rupert Murdoch, said it had withdrawn its offer to buy Time Warner Inc . Shares of Fox jumped, gaining 8.6 percent in after-hours action, while Time Warner shares fell over 11 percent. The Dow  had already dropped 0.84 percent on Tuesday, while the S&amp;P 500  lost 0.97 percent and the Nasdaq  0.71 percent. All 10 S&amp;P 500 sectors ended lower, led by a 2.1 percent drop in energy stocks  as ample supply pressured oil prices. Shares had been weak for most of the Tuesday session, but selling accelerated in the afternoon on reports that Russian troops were massing near the Ukraine border. The unease over Ukraine helped put a mild bid into Treasuries, with yields on 10-year notes  down a tick at 2.48 percent. In currencies, the dollar hit its highest against a basket of currencies  since last September after the Institute for Supply Management said service-sector growth hit an eight-and-a-half-year peak on strength in new orders and employment.  U.S. factory orders were also solid in July and data showed positive revisions to durable goods orders, a sign that the economy continues to improve. The dollar index  was last at 81.544, not far from the overnight peak of 81.626. The euro languished at $1.3367 , having plumbed a nine-month trough of $1.3358. The dollar had less luck on the yen, lapsing back to 102.54  from Tuesday's high of 102.93. The standout currency was the New Zealand dollar, which skidded to two-month lows after milk prices fell again at an auction held by Fonterra Co-operative Group, the world's biggest dairy exporter. In commodities, gold failed to get much of a lift from safe-haven flows and idled at $1,289.95 an ounce . Oil prices remained under pressure as plentiful supplies in Europe and North America outweighed fears that violence in the Middle East and North Africa could disrupt production. Brent crude  edged up 35 cents on Wednesday to $104.96, but that followed its weakest close since November 2013. U.S. crude  was 24 cents firmer at $97.62, following its lowest settlement since early February.  (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
