Making the big decision to shave your head? First of all, I salute you: Hanging on to a few strands of hair is rarely a great look; it takes confidence to truly commit to a hair-free head. Of course, those who do decide to shave their remaining hair instead of horde it have plenty of good company – a few very sexy action movie stars rocking clean domes come immediately to mind. If you’re just getting ready to give it your first go, read through these tips to make the most out of your next evolutionary leap. 1. Sunscreen. Every morning. Scalp, ears, neck, face. Look for a scalp-specific sunblock, which is formulated not to run into your eyes, which can be annoying. 2. Even short hair will block sunlight—which means that the pale-skinned among you will want to avoid shaving the day after getting a lot of sun. Those short hairs will have shielded the UV rays—meaning that after the shave is done, they’ll be the proud owners of a tan neck and a spectacularly bright-white scalp. 3. A good moisturizer is a key part of beating dry skin on your scalp. It’s possible to find a product doing double duty, but I find that grooming goods that mix both elements wind up having a “jack of all trades/master of none” thing going on. I prefer to get the best moisturizer for my skin type, and then pair it with a non-allergenic sunscreen. 4. You might have thought you were done with shampoo and conditioner. Not so fast: They’re specifically formulated to be more moisturizing for your scalp than standard soap, which can be drying. That means: Shampoo every time you shower, and condition at least 2-3 times a week, following with a pre-shave gel to prep the skin before your big shave. 5. Argan or tea tree oil can offer extra-moisturizing properties during dry, inclement weather (so basically, from now until March.) 6. Get a good view. Make sure you’re working in good lighting with mirrors aplenty; a nick on your face doesn’t feel great; neither do those that happen elsewhere. 7. Shave post-shower. Advances in blade technology have helped smooth the way for your shave, but you still want to help things along where you can. Your hair will be at its softest, meaning you’ll need to use less pressure to get the job done—lessening the chance of razor burn and noticeable cuts. 8. The right shave gel offers a make-or-break moment: Choose well, and you’ll reduce your chances for razor burn and improve the quality of your shave. Try Gillette’s Fusion HydraGel shave gel, the formula skips the stuff your skin doesn’t want — like dyes and fragrances — for sensitive skin. 9. Slipped up and feeling the burn anyway? Razor burn on the scalp can be painful for as long as a week. Whatever you do, don’t scratch, which can lead to infection and even more headache. Treat it with a topical hydrocortisone and put the razor away until your skin is no longer irritated. 10. A basic grooming tenet that plenty of people forget: Always shave in the direction hair grows—not against it, even though that sometimes feels particularly satisfying. Going against the natural order of things can lead to razor burn. 11. Hold your (shaved) head high. Once you’ve made the decision to shave it all off, own it! Don’t hide your light under a bushel—or in this case, a fedora or baseball cap. At least, not all the time. Remember those action heroes we talked about before? They always get the girl in the end, so get in touch with that confidence! FREE AppDownload
