Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Starting a new business is hard. Building a new industry is even harder. Especially when it’s on the other side of the world. For nearly a century, exploration of the Americas had been carried out under royal patronage. Whatever spoils were brought back belonged to the crown. That began to change toward the end of the 16th century, when a group of profit-seekers became convinced of the promise of untold riches waiting to be discovered in what came to be called the new world.  They were called “adventurers.” The term referred not only to those willing to risk their personal safety by setting sail for America, but to those willing to finance such undertakings, investing in fledgling colonies designed to exploit the vast resources available overseas. Today, we would call them venture capitalists. The European settlement of North America, then, was accomplished by a series of start-ups. But as with any wave of firms entering a radically new sector, it took some flameouts and consolidation for what might be called America Inc. to really get off the ground. en.wikipedia.orgSir Walter Raleigh, explorer and smoker, was a favorite of Queen Elizabeth but was later beheaded for his supposed involvement in a conspiracy against King James.As in many new industries, the pioneering players weren't the ones who we necessarily remember today. The first two English adventurers to try to make it in America were Sir Walter Raleigh and his half-brother Sir Humphrey Gilbert. Raleigh is now recalled more for his infamous personal and political life — he was a favorite of Queen Elizabeth, became England’s first chain smoker, and was eventually beheaded. Nor did Gilbert even really care much about America itself. In 1576, a document called “A Discourse of a Discouerie for a New Passage to Cataia” built up evidence that the continent contained a northwest passage to China. The work found its way up to Queen Elizabeth, on whom it made a large impression. In an early example of what we might now call a “request for proposal” or RFP, she put out the word that she was entertaining pitches for expeditions. Two years later, Gilbert applied for and received a license to establish a colony in America. Storms forced back Gilbert's initial attempt to reach the Americas, and it would take another five years before he took another shot at it. His crew eventually made it to Newfoundland in August of 1583, though no attempt was made to form a colony. But against the advice of his crew, Gilbert took a smaller ship home back to England, and was lost at sea. Undeterred, Raleigh lobbied for and received a 1584 charter from Queen Elizabeth to settle the territory England claimed in America, basically the entire East Coast north of modern-day Florida. He was given license to exploit whatever economic opportunities he could find there, and reading the charter one can detect early echoes of the precise, legalistic language often encountered in modern contacts. Raleigh had the go-ahead to “discover, search, find out, and view such remote heathen and barbarous Lands, Countries, and territories … to have, hold, occupy, and enjoy commodities, jurisdictions, royalties, privileges, franchises, and preheminences, thereto or thereabouts.” en.wikipedia.orgVirginea Pars map, including Roanoke Island, drawn by John White during his initial visit in 1585.Raleigh himself never made the journey, but an exploratory expedition sent back strong initial reports: “fish the best of the world…fruites very excellent good…and soile…the most plentiful, sweete and fruitful and wholesome of all the world.” So in 1585, Raleigh, who had by now gotten himself elected to parliament and knighted by Queen Elizabeth, self-funded an expedition to set up a beachhead settlement on Roanoake Island, on the Outer Banks of what is now North Carolina. Despite those glowing early reports, the reality encountered by the settlers on arriving proved more challenging. The local Algonquin tribe was hostile to the newcomers, supplies were inadequate, and the colonists neaerly starved. When Sir Francis Drake, the greatest seaman of his generation, made a surprise call at Roanoake, all the settlers there left with him. Raleigh, meanwhile, was diversifying. He had begun to shift his focus toward developing holdings in Ireland, which he’d helped occupy. And in April of 1587, he was appointed Royal Captain of the Guard, responsible for Queen Elizabeth’s personal safety. Still, he wasn’t quite ready to give up on a North American settlement, outfitting one final expedition there. NEXT: Once a Pirate, Always a Pirate   FREE AppDownload
