REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange February 19, 2014. Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US Futures are slightly higher, with the E-Minis dancing near 1840 on this Expiry Friday as Sentiment improves over reports of a Ukraine deal – EU Markets are mixed in light trade, with the DAX adding small in volumes 35% below 20day averages.   EU Fins remain under pressure, as do Fins globally – they have been serial underperformers in February.   In Asia, the Yen’s drop brought another 3% Nikkei surge, Japan’s Topix posted the biggest weekly rally since November – Nikkei futures are holding those gains still.   Shanghai lost 1.2% on profittaking in some of the Oils that surged yesterday – while Miners jumped in Aussie, dragging the ASX to it’s highest close in 6 years.   Looking at EM, Ukraine’s FX is jumping higher, and CDS dropping – as reports of a deal outweigh the S&amp;P downgrade overnight.   Stay focused on Brazil, who’s equity market is one of the worst performers this week – as Brazil is the “last Line” in the sand between EM angst bleeding into Developed markets.    We are keeping an eye on the consumer names – and many are seeing a nice pre-opening pop:  WEN is up 5%, JCP 4%, and YELP, LULU and PCLN all adding 2%+.   The Loser of the overnight is GRPN, which is off 27% from last night’s earnings induced spike to $12. The 10YY is flat, after being rejected from 2.76% several times in the last 24 hours – but remains above the 100dma.   The DXY is stronger, making gains against both € and Yen – causing a headwind for commodities.   While Gasoline, Brent and WTI are all in the red – the Moonshot in Natty continues, with the commodity adding almost 3% overnight, bringing the week’s gains near 50%.    Coffee, however, continues to rally, adding 2% - and is now up almost 55% over the last 5 sessions as concerns mount on crops.   Gold is popping, and nearing week highs, after it neared a test of the 200dma after yesterday’s TIPs auction, which the sale of $9B in Inflation Protected securities drew the lowest demand in over 12 years.    We are getting G20 headlines ahead of the meet in Aussie this weekend – With heavy focus on EM repairing their balance sheets to weather the global tapering – and a large emphasis on encouraging global growth.    Scheduled Catalysts today include Existing Home Sales for January at 10, a Small POMO at 11 - Fed's Bullard Speaks on Economy in St. Louis at 1:10 – and we have Expiration on the opening and close.  At some point, we will get some EU ratings headlines - Fitch on Ireland, Moody’s on Spain.   FREE AppDownload
