Supporting these less-than-scientific results, there have been numerous academic studies that suggest investors’ reactions to market risk are not symmetric. Investors consistently react more negatively to losses than positively to gains. At RBA, we incorporate this asymmetry in our sentiment work. At the beginning of a typical market cycle, investors are more fearful of losses than normal. In the mid-cycle, they tend to be more accepting of risk, and appear to have more normal risk tolerances. In the late cycle, investors generally embrace risk and attempt to accentuate returns because they believe there is no downside risk. Data clearly show that no group of investors is currently willing to take excessive US equity risk. Pension funds, endowments, foundations, hedge funds, individuals, Wall Street strategists, and even corporations themselves remain more fearful of downside risk than they are willing to accentuate upside potential. One might argue that the valuations of stocks like social media, biotechnology, small energy argue that there is a “bubble” forming in stocks. These areas of the stock market do indeed seem excessively speculative, but the enthusiasm for these groups has not translated into enthusiasm for US stocks as a whole. As we have previously pointed out, high beta stocks within the S&amp;P 500® are near historically low relative valuations. The probability of a bear market still seems low to us. Bear markets are made of tight liquidity, significantly deteriorating fundamentals, and investor euphoria. Although the Fed is starting to reverse course, there are no signs yet of a significant tightening of liquidity. Rather, the data are beginning to suggest that private sector credit growth is starting to replace the Fed as the provider of liquidity. Corporate fundamentals continue to be healthy, and investment, whether in inventories or capital equipment, has yet to show any sign of extreme. As mentioned, we can find no group of investors who are shunning diversification or leveraging upside participation in US equities as an asset class. Regardless of these healthy signs, most investors continue to focus on protecting the downside. However, investors don’t seem to have learned the lesson of the past cycle. Investors continue to confuse the number of asset classes with diversification. Diversification isn’t based on the number of asset classes, it’s based on the correlation of returns among the asset classes. One central tenet of our portfolios remains that there are very few asset classes that truly “protect against the downside risk in equities”. Upside/downside capture is a simple measure that shows how an investment relates to the movements of the stock market. Returns are separated into two groups: those when the stock market rises and those when the stock market falls. The capture shows the proportion between the asset’s returns and the overall stock market’s return. For example, if the average up return for the S&amp;P 500® was 10% and the average up return for a particular asset was 7.5%, then the upside capture ratio would be 75% (7.5/10). Similarly if the average down return for the S&amp;P 500® was -10% and the average down return for the asset was 12%, then the downside capture ratio would be 120% (-12/-10). The goal is to find assets that have a high upside capture, but a low or negative downside capture. Chart 1 shows a scatter of upside/downside capture ratios for a broad set of asset classes based on returns during the past ten years. The quadrants depict the four possible combinations, i.e., lower upside/lower downside, lower upside/higher downside, higher upside/higher downside, and higher upside/lower downside. The 45-degree line shows equal upside/downside ratios. RBA There are several points that investors should consider when reviewing this chart: Investors, regardless of whether they are institutional or individual, tend to follow trends when determining asset allocation decisions. Yet, history has shown that swimming against the tide and investing in unpopular asset classes has been the route to true diversification and investment success. Our core investment philosophy has always been that uncertainty equals opportunity. The data suggest that we continue to differ with the consensus regarding our bullish views toward the US market, and regarding our views regarding which asset classes offer diversification and downside protection. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
