Any modern gentleman or lady knows the importance of keeping a good watch. Whether it's a shiny new gift or a sentimental hand-me-down from a relative, you'll want to find a repairman you can trust to take good care of your watch whenever it needs repairs, or even a new battery. We turned to our friends at Yelp, who ranked watch repair shops around New York City based on user reviews, and found the best ten shops in town. Some of the these experts have been around for years, and you might find your conversations with them as rewarding as the repair itself. 121 Madison AveMidtown East, Manhattan Star Watch Service is a little mom-and-pop shop but their service is top notch. They'll check out your watch immediately and are often able to fix it on the spot. Or leave it with them for bigger repairs -- they'll get the job done fast for a reasonable price. 39 W 14th StGreenwich Village, Manhattan JWATCH can boast candid, direct service, according to Yelp reviewer Bryan H. They're also really great about last minute walk-ins, even as the store is closing. They'll get you in and out of there in no time, and the receptionist at the front desk is reportedly very friendly. 875 3rd AveMidtown East, Manhattan  Watch Station is an old-school watch repair shop with the customer care and attention to detail to match. It's located inside a newsstand in the subway entrance on 3rd Avenue. Yelp reviewer Dave P. calls repairman Boris "a superstar" and "a true watchmaker." 70 Bayard StChinatown, Manhattan Watch Repair's expert, Michael Chen, is not only talented, he's truly entertaining to watch, according to one Yelp reviewer. He'll change a battery in record time and he's courteous too. (More than one reviewer described him hanging around after closing time to do one last quick fix.) 1 Beekman St, Rm 503Financial District, Manhattan This is the kind of place you go to for the customer service and ambience. Mr. Maddox, described by reviewers as a kind old man, still runs the cluttered old shop. But don't be mistaken -- despite his age, he is absolutely on top of his game. "I think I've found the nicest gentleman EVER!" wrote Yelp reviewer  Ebony C. "He didn't want to charge me and that just was the sweetest thing." 20 W 47th StMidtown West, Manhattan No more than two people fit in this tiny midtown shop at a time, and it does get busy. But it's worth the wait -- service is "pleasant, quick, and underpriced," according to reviewer Dakota M.  Some reviewers found repairman Mikhael a bit rough around the edges, but most agreed that he's an honest guy, and he'll repair your watch while you wait. 908 Amsterdam AveManhattan Valley, Manhattan Yelp reviewers love this place for the speed and the affordability. Avoid the crowds of midtown and come here for battery changes in minutes flat (usually for $7 or less). "Exceptional service -- owner did repairs himself, very professional &amp; fast," wrote reviewer Julie C. "Had everything he needed, was great experience!" 500 5th AvePark Slope, Brooklyn This South Park Slope spot is a jewelry shop, but they also do watch repairs. A number of Yelp reviewers have come here for watch resizing or battery replacement services, both of which cost about $5 and take under 5 minutes. 2350 BroadwayUpper West Side, Manhattan Ernesto's has mixed reviews on Yelp but some long-time Upper West Side residents swear by it. The service is friendly and prices are comparable to other shops on this list. "This place is awesome and the only place I now go to for any watch repairs," wrote reviewer Marco G. "They are very welcoming at the store and don't rip you off like some of the other places I've been to." 9618 63rd DrRego Park, Queens This Forest Hills shop is great whether you live in Queens or are willing to make the trek out there. The word most commonly used by Yelpers to describe the repairmen here is "helpful." "Great service, friendly owner, replaced my watch battery in seconds and showed me all the functions of the watch that I didn't even know about," wrote Michael C. "Highly recommended." FREE AppDownload
