Shane FerroGoodbye, debit card. A decade later, I found myself still banking at what has become Chase. There were a couple of reasons for this: I've lived in New York since I was 18, and there are branches everywhere. Even though Chase charges you to use a non-Chase ATM, it rarely presented a huge problem because there's generally one within a few blocks. I don't really use my bank account or debit card that often. Anything I can pay for with a credit card, I do, so that I can rack up airline miles (I pay off my balance in full at the end of every month). My checking-account transactions are basically limited to paying off my credit card, paying my rent, and paying my utility bills. So I only really think about my bank when I need cash. Justin Sullivan/GettyThere's a $2 fee to use any non-Chase ATM. My mom never lost access to it, so my parents could send me money automatically without having to wait for an ACH transfer or a check in the mail. This was helpful in college, when she would send me money every once in a while, but isn't really anymore — woo-hoo, adulthood! (For Christmas, I'll teach my mom to use Venmo.) The point is that Chase was, at one point, minorly convenient for me. But it's majorly inconvenient in a variety of ways: There's a $2 fee to use any non-Chase ATM, on top of whatever that machine charges you. Plus, the interest rates on my checking and savings accounts were terrible. I had always just been too lazy to close my account. Then, over the weekend, Reuters reporter Lauren LaCapra tweeted this: So Chase now charges $5 to take cash out of a non-Chase ATM. Is that aggressive or am I crazy? It turned out to be not quite true — she later clarified that this fee applies only to ATMs outside of the US. But it annoyed me at just the right time, and I decided it was time to break up with my bank. It took me a total of about 20 minutes over a couple of days. Here's how to do it, for anyone fed up with any of the big banks' hidden fees, horrible customer service, and paltry interest rates. This is a helpful list if you don't have any idea where to turn. Definitely consider a credit union. I didn't really have to choose. I've had a savings account with Ally for several years, because it has one of the best interest rates around for savings accounts (currently 0.9%). I'd already opened a checking account there as well, for some money I had wanted to segregate a while back. If you don't have an extra account, call or go to the website of the bank you choose and open one. It takes about five minutes. I like Ally because there aren't monthly maintenance fees or account minimums. Annnnd ... there are no ATM fees. None. What you get charged by other ATMs, Ally reimburses you for. Screenshot ally.com The downside is there are no physical branches, so depositing checks can be a pain (you take a photo of the check with your phone, then it takes a couple of days to clear). But at this point I deposit maybe five checks a year. It's helpful to wait until you get your new debit card in the mail before moving on to Step 2. My rent and my utility bills automatically come out of my bank account, but that's about it, so it was really easy to go onto those websites and change my direct-deposit settings. Speaking of direct deposit, don't forget how you get paid. I also had to go into Business Insider's HR site and change my payment allocations. One click and it's over! Wait on this until the other steps above are done, though, if your bank requires a minimum balance in your account. They will ask you why. They will try to persuade you to stay. Stay firm. I found that when I said "I'm leaving because I found a higher interest rate elsewhere," there was nothing they could come back at me with. The sales associate smiled. He asked me what interest rate I was getting at my new bank — was it close to 1%? I said yes, and he got to work. Some typing on a keyboard for about a minute, and it was over. I folded my debit card in half, and I was done! Instagram/videofyme      FREE AppDownload
