When it comes to gasoline prices, what goes up must come down – and vice versa. Or so it seems to US motorists, who have been on a roller coaster ride with gas prices over the last decade. In 2008 alone, the national average jolted above $4 a gallon in the summer before plunging to around $1.85 a gallon in November. Gas prices are notoriously fickle, spiking unexpectedly or suddenly tumbling at various points throughout the year. Why do gasoline prices go up and down so much across the US, and what causes the changes? There are a variety of factors at play – some seasonal, some state-specific, some globally significant, and some the result of unpredictable natural disasters. At about $3 a gallon, current rates at the pump are good news for motorists who’ve paid closer to $4 a gallon for many of the past several years. It means money everyday Americans save at the pump can be spent elsewhere, giving the overall economy a lift. But low prices can hurt energy firms that depend on higher prices to finance exploration. Cheaper fuels also promote the everyday use of larger, less-efficient vehicles and can delay investments in cleaner energy sources.   The most recent price drop can be attributed mostly to basic supply and demand. “If it were not for the recent boom in North American crude production and improving fuel efficiency of US cars, it’s likely drivers would have paid $4 a gallon or higher in recent years,” says Michael Green, spokesman for automotive group AAA. “The US is making more crude and gasoline – improving the supply situation – at the same time that cars are growing more fuel-efficient and demanding less gasoline.” So with all the new oil, shouldn’t US gas prices be even lower than $3? Not necessarily. Gasoline is inextricably linked to the crude oil from which it is refined. Oil is traded globally, which means developments halfway across the world can influence the price at the corner gas station. Right now, demand might be relatively flat and supply rising in the US, but developing Asian economies are increasingly dependent on oil. Last year, China overtook the US as the largest oil importer, using it to fuel cars and create products for an expanding middle class. That extra demand – combined with the rising cost of oil production – has kept upward pressure on oil and gasoline markets. Still, prices today are lower than they’ve been in years – and lower than they would be without the US oil boom. Here are five major factors that determine gasoline prices: The most obvious determinant of gas prices – making up 67 percent of the price according to the US Energy Information Administration – is the cost of the resource gas comes from: crude oil. Fluctuations in gas prices tend to track fluctuations in crude – and currently, with oil prices sliding to the lowest levels in years, gas prices are sliding as well. That fall in oil prices is the result of booming North American production, Saudi Arabia’s hesitance to cut output, and a drop in Asian demand. For more on why crude oil prices have fallen 25 percent over the course of summer 2014, check out the Monitor’s explainer on the precipitous oil price drop. Gas stations sell summer blend gas during the hot summer driving season, and revert to cheaper winter blend gas in the winter. Summer blend gas creates less smog – particularly important during warm summers, when more drivers hit the road and travel longer distances. But that summer blend gas comes at a cost, says Mr. Green: “It can add anywhere from 10 to 15 cents a gallon.” Most states follow Environmental Protection Agency rules for introducing summer blend in June and phasing it out mid-September. If you’re in California, though, you’re buying the “summer blend” earlier than June and into October – raising the cost of gasoline, but reducing smog in a state historically plagued by air quality problems. Drivers tend to hit the roads more in the summer, driving up demand for gas, and driving up prices as well. In the winter, rough roads and inclement weather encourage motorists to keep the car in the garage – or at least avoid long road trips. That drives demand down, making gas cheaper in the winter. Weather-related disasters like hurricanes can also push up gas prices. The bulk of American refineries are concentrated near the Gulf Coast, where late summer tropical storms and hurricanes sometimes disrupt both refining capacity and offshore oil drilling. And those disruptions can be passed along to the rest of the country if the coast loses power. “If the pipelines don’t have electricity they cannot supply gas to the Northeast and Midwest, and you can see prices go up outside of the affected region,” says Green. Gas prices vary widely based on where you are in the US. In remote Hawaii, where it’s costly to ship products, gas prices were above $4 a gallon in October – even as the US average flirted with the $3 mark. But proximity to refineries isn’t the only reason locations matters, according to Green. “The biggest determinant of gas prices in individual states is the tax they have on fuel,” he says. Varied tax rates mean gas in South Carolina – which taxes only 35.15 cents a gallon – is significantly cheaper than gas in North Carolina, which taxes 55.15 cents a gallon, according to information compiled by the American Petroleum Institute, an industry group. And those tax differences are passed along to consumers: Gas in South Carolina was $2.76 a gallon on October 30, while it sold for $2.93 in higher-taxing North Carolina, according to data from GasBuddy.com, a website that collects gas prices nationwide. Refineries tend to do regular upkeep work in the fall and spring, which can lead to interruptions in the supply of gas. And when supply is limited, prices go up. “Spring often has the highest prices because demand is increasing, refineries are conducting maintenance, and they’re getting ready for the switch over to summer blend gasoline,” says Green. Refinery problems are less of a threat in the summer and winter – i.e., outside of the maintenance seasons – and those periods tend to have stronger production. But with demand for gasoline high in the summer, Green says, winter is the only time when steady supply and low demand result in cheap gas. FREE AppDownload
