The 621st Contingency Response Wing/flickrA "mudder" crawls through mud under dangling wires at a race in Pennsylvania. 'Three thousand people around the world have the Tough Mudder logo tattooed on them,’ Will Dean says inside the company’s unassuming London office. ‘I mean, people are not getting British Airways tattooed on them. No disrespect to BA, but we identify with something. We mean something to people.’ Of course, Dean is a touch biased. He is the co-founder and CEO of the endurance event firm. ‘People ask me if Tough Mudder is a cult,’ he continues. ‘Well, that question must mean we are a cult brand. And what is a cult brand?’ He answers his own question. ‘It has values. It has meaning. It stands for something. And if you stand for something, by definition you can’t represent everyone in society. For what we are, that is OK.’ Tough Mudder — now estimated to be worth upwards of $86 million — means an awful lot to an awful lot of people. And not only to those moved to visit a tattoo parlor. By the end of 2014 two million men and women aged 18 and over will have entered a Tough Mudder event (paying $85-170 each, depending on how quickly one signs up) since its inaugural race in Pennsylvania four years ago. About 78% of those two million will manage to haul themselves across the finish line. Which goes some way to explaining Tough Mudder’s appeal. It is hard. Really, really hard. For most of us, running 12 miles is challenge enough. A Tough Mudder course covers 12 miles of relentlessly muddy, hilly terrain. It also hurls sadistic roadblocks in your way. Electroshock Therapy is perhaps the most infamous of the 20 or so obstacles you will face. Here, wet and muddy competitors have to plough across yet more mud to find their way through a curtain of live wires that emit 10,000 volts of electricity. There are lots of wires and lots of shocks. The Arctic Enema sees participants plunge into a dumpster filled with ice water, where they then have to dive down to pass under a plank that crosses the tank to (hopefully) emerge on the other side. At the Funky Monkey you will find a long run of butter- and mud-greased monkey bars at various inclines. Lose your grip (and you will) and you are destined for a pool of icy brown water.  The course is so difficult (‘Probably the toughest event on the planet,’ the firm’s branding shouts), you enter as part of a team. Your team’s support is vital — you won’t complete a Tough Mudder event without accepting a bunk-up here or outstretched arm there — and has helped foster a collaborative spirit that is the very opposite of the solitary nature of marathon running. Despite the strength in numbers, Tough Mudder requires entrants to sign a death waiver. More on this later. Considering the dangers, it is easy to question why anyone would want to sign up for such unrelenting muddy misery. But for Dean and Tough Mudder’s co-founder Guy Livingstone, it is all reasonably simple. ‘It’s more of a mental challenge than a physical one,’ Livingstone says. ‘We live in an increasingly sanitized world where we sit behind computers, we don’t get our hands dirty, and health and safety seems to rule everything. Playing in the mud brings out the inner child in all of us.’ And it is rather different from competing in regular endurance events. ‘It is the antithesis of triathlons and shaving your legs and worrying about your split times,’ Dean says. ‘There is something counter-cultural about it. There are no winners and no losers; it is just about getting through it. An American once told me it’s like communism in that way. Only an American would say that, but I think there’s something in it. Our start line states, “We don’t care about time, we care about your best and what is better than your best.” You also get to be a bit goofy and you can’t take yourself too seriously doing a Tough Mudder event. You are going to fall over and get covered in mud.’ Dean and Livingstone make for an interesting pair. Both 33, they met at 13, boarders at Oundle School in Northamptonshire. At the age of 17, they set up their first company together, selling color-changing nail polishes to various British trade fairs. In 2007, Dean was at Harvard Business School following a five-year spell at the Home Office working in counterterrorism, while Livingstone was growing frustrated with life as a corporate lawyer in the City. ‘I was running a triathlon in the States about six years ago,’ Dean says. ‘The zip on my wetsuit jammed so I turned to the guy next to me and asked him if he could pull on it. He glared back at me, despite the fact it was a two-second ask. As I was cycling around, I thought it was interesting how everything is now so hyper-competitive and we constantly benchmark ourselves against each other. I found marathons and triathlons a bit solitary and boring, but did them at Harvard because I needed something to keep me focused. I was living with another Brit at Harvard and we’d go for runs and start taking people with us. I realized it was a lot more fun doing something with other people. Those two ideas were the genesis of it. I then started looking around in the States and there weren’t any events out there that were tough, about teamwork, and challenging enough that someone with a day job could train and get into reasonable shape to complete it, but not so hard that you have to give up drinking for nine months. I think there’s been a generational shift in terms of the value of experiences over and above any material goods. People our age don’t talk about what kind of car they drive, but I think they do talk an awful lot about what they did on holiday. I also saw us filling the gap in the market for a team-based challenge. Twenty years ago more people were joining football or rugby teams but it’s become harder to commit with work, travel and families. I combined those ideas and began getting excited. Everyone around me said, “Well, this isn’t bad, but fire, electricity, mud and ice water?” People thought I was a little eccentric.’ Meanwhile, Livingstone was cooped up in a London law firm and slowly going mad. ‘Will was looking for someone he knew well and trusted, plus would offer something different,’ Livingstone says. ‘He showed me the business plan he’d written at Harvard the summer before and asked me what I thought. I said it looked fun and exciting and I was up for it. Had I spent any longer as a corporate lawyer my appetite for risk would have been completely bashed out of me.’ The pair headed for Brooklyn, New York, where Dean had decamped after Harvard. As they huddled over laptops for 18 hours a day, sleeping on blow-up beds, momentum built quickly. Perhaps not least thanks to their nationality. ‘It’s helpful to have an English accent,’ Livingstone says. ‘Especially when you’re dealing with different venue owners and commercial partners.’ Exploiting accents may have accelerated Tough Mudder’s journey to the start line but adopting an American attitude towards entrepreneurial endeavors proved vital. Both men feel their achievements highlight the lingering snobbery Britain has towards self-made business success. ‘Entrepreneurship is celebrated in the States,’ Livingstone says. ‘People treat it as the true realization of the American dream. Business leaders in the US are celebrated in a way that they’re not so much in the UK. Richard Branson is loathed as much as he’s liked, for example. It’s interesting to me; here’s someone who’s created an incredibly powerful brand, but people just tend to think he’s a bit arriviste. Americans are often affronted when I explain that most Brits think Branson’s a bit nouveau riche and showy,’ he says, smiling. ‘They say, “This is what’s wrong with your country. The guy’s created so many jobs. He’s a badass!” And I think there’s still a mentality that business people are those who couldn’t make it within a profession. Those Arthur Daley stereotypes still exist.’ Tough Mudder has faced opposition far sterner than lazy stereotypes. Its almost instant popularity — helped significantly through aggressively harnessing the marketing powers of Facebook and Twitter — brought with it controversy. Dean faced allegations of ideas theft, with former British Army soldier Billy Wilson filing a lawsuit against him in February 2010 claiming Dean had taken proprietary information from his own Tough Guy event. Wilson asserted that in July 2008, while at Harvard, Dean had offered to write a report on how to grow Tough Guy’s business in exchange for hands-on experience with the company and access to the firm’s records and financial information. According to Wilson, Dean failed to file a satisfactory report before launching the strikingly similar Tough Mudder. The pair settled their case out of court in 2011, with Dean’s company reportedly paying Wilson $725,000 and both agreeing never to speak publicly about the case. Wilson is not the only rival to speak out against Dean’s tactics. Joe DeSena, the founder of the endurance outfit Spartan Race, spoke to Outside magazine. ‘There’s not a person on this planet I despise more than Will Dean,’ he said. On April 20, 2013, Tough Mudder experienced its first fatality, at an event in Gerrardstown, West Virginia. Witnesses told police 28-year-old Avishek Sengupta died after being submerged in water for between five and 15 minutes during an incident on the Walk the Plank obstacle. A coroner ruled the death an accidental drowning and no criminal charges were pressed against Tough Mudder. ‘It is very difficult to achieve something where you are doing something that is meaningful and worthwhile without exposing yourself or others to some sort of risk,’ Dean says, speaking slowly and carefully when I ask him about Sengupta’s death. ‘If you look at a typical ski resort, skiing-related fatalities compared to that of a marathon are significantly higher. The death rate for triathlons is one in 60,000. We’ve now had 1.5 million people enter a Tough Mudder event. I think we knew very early on that if we were in business for long enough, statistically, something would happen. We live in a world where there are increasing numbers of obese people and depressed teenagers and I really believe in that sense Tough Mudder is a force for good in the world. I am very proud of our safety record. That isn’t a bland corporate line, that is from Will Dean the individual saying I am very happy with how it has worked out.’ After two years of American success, Dean and Livingstone returned home to launch a raft of British events, and further territories are ready to fall. It has contributed more than £600,000 to its official British charity partner, Help for Heroes, and more than $6 million to its US equivalent, the Wounded Warrior Project. A TV show has long been mooted. Rather like a professional football club, they have a growing list of commercial partners, including a multi-million-dollar kit deal (with the fast-rising US brand Under Armour), a mineral water supplier (Volvic), pain relief (Advil) and razor (Bic). A fresh batch of rival firms have arrived, only helping enrich the ‘mud obstacle race’ market (worth an estimated $250 million) for its undisputed leader. ‘We see them as feeder events, frankly,’ Livingstone says. Tough Mudder employees — 150 across three offices in Brooklyn, London and Berlin — enjoy a new unlimited holiday policy (‘We’ve found high achievers take more vacation and those who aren’t performing as well take less,’ Dean says. ‘In America there was a fanfare and high fives when it was announced. In Europe it was, “What’s the catch?” It’s about getting the team to take responsibility.’) and the brand’s revenue has leapt from about £1.3 million in 2010 to nearly £70 million last year. Competitors aren’t just checking Tough Mudder off a bucket list once they have claimed the orange headband that acts as the race medal. They are entering multiple races a year. ‘I believe very strongly in what drives this repeat user base,’ Livingstone says. ‘It’s the power of human touch. On a lot of the obstacles you need to be pushed or pulled over and you definitely need to be supporting other people. People don’t finish a Tough Mudder event and say, “Oh, that was good. I got touched by lots of people,” but there is something very powerful about that tangible sense. It’s very visceral.’ Dean is bolder when discussing Tough Mudder’s influence. ‘People start using your name as a term, like Google, you know? You then realise your brand has become synonymous with the entire industry. I sometimes hear people say, “Yeah, I did a Tough Mudder, but it wasn’t one of your events.” You get mixed emotions but on balance you think it’s a good thing.’ Much like, perhaps, the feeling you would have at a Tough Mudder finish line. Attempting to complete all 16 Tough Mudder UK events this year with his friend Craig Soulsby to raise money for Cancer Research and the Alzheimer’s Society ( justgiving.com/teams/TMFR2014 ) ‘You can’t really train for them. It’s a real psychological and physical mix of demands. I work in construction and I’m in an office most of the time and I get bored. This is something new and exciting. You’re running around like a kid doing these crazy obstacles without a care in the world. The first time I did the Arctic Enema I couldn’t breathe. You body falls into shock and you can’t breathe. You do panic when you first face the obstacles, but you soon learn what to expect. And the atmosphere is incredible. It’s the spirit that exists through the experience that carries people through. It’s team-driven. A lot of the obstacles are just impossible unless you receive assistance. And people do stop and assist. These are people you wouldn’t normally even make eye contact with on a train. It’s pretty powerful.’ An air hostess who set up the Hosties 4 Heroes charity and is running multiple Tough Mudders with her colleagues ( hosties4heroes.co.uk ) ‘You don’t even realise how far you’ve run because it’s so enjoyable. I know I couldn’t do even a half-marathon, it would bore me to tears. People want a purpose and goal to their training. When you’re stuck in the office all day, you want something to look forward to. I don’t know why people do the London Marathon. Obviously it’s something very rewarding that you can check off the bucket list, but no one I’ve ever spoken to has said that they had any fun doing it! They’re hobbling around and crying. But when you finish a Tough Mudder you’re incredibly excited and demanding your pint of cider. And it’s about conquering fears, which people really do because it’s so dangerous. When you sign that death waiver before you run, you do question what you’re doing.’ Ex-SAS, Tough Mudder’s Head of Tough since 2011 ‘I’m the chief fitness officer for Tough Mudder. I put the Tough in Tough Mudder. I get to do a lot of the fun stuff. Coming up with ideas for the obstacles themselves and dreaming up new ideas. The nervous part is trying it all out as I’m one of the first to test a new obstacle, if not the first. But it’s part of my background to always want to push boundaries. Sometimes you do think, “Wow, that might be a little bit too much, or that wall might be a little bit too high to get over,” but it is tremendous fun. It’s the teamwork and camaraderie you develop as well. You get people from all walks of life: military, police, sport clubs, individuals. When you go along and speak to the families, it’s fascinating. You speak to family members there to support relatives and they say, “Oh, I couldn’t do this,” and they’re there in 12 months’ time saying, “My husband or wife has just done that, so why can’t I?” It’s that spirit that I think is missing in the Western world these days.’ Also attempting to run all 16 Tough Mudder UK events in 2014 to raise money for Help for Heroes ( bmycharity.com/Aaronsmudder ) ‘After serving eight years in the US Army it was something that I was always going to find fun, but I was surprised at how hard it is. It’s a mental thing. You have to know that you can do it. You have to have the confidence for it as it’s completely out of the ordinary. I think people were starting to get bored with marathons and Tough Mudder offers such a physicality. Just the running through mud alone is difficult. But then you throw in the water, electricity and fire and it becomes a mental challenge, too. I think people really love getting back to nature. If you live in the city and work in the city, you’re not connecting with nature at all. And then suddenly you’re running through the woods, knee-deep in mud, and walking through creeks.’  FREE AppDownload
