The following is a winning essay from the nationwide American InvestWrite competition conducted by the nonprofit SIFMA Foundation.  The appeal to a money-hoarding cookie jar was written by then-fourth grade student Joshua Zirkiyev and is republished here with permission.  Note that all financial figures reflect 2012. Hey, cookie jar, we have to talk. You are hoarding money and it's not growing. This just isn't working for me. Wouldn't you just rather have Girl Scout cookies in your jar while I invest the dough you have? I am going to invest in Apple, a mutual fund, and a bond. Hey, Cookie jar, I am going to convince you to open your lid. If you open your lid, I will invest all the money that you have and it is going to grow and you will get more money in your jar. The stock that I chose is Apple. Based on the Apple website, Apple announced plans that Apple is going to buy stocks from investors and that will increase the stock’s price. They are going to start paying dividends too. A dividend is spare money that is paid to investors by the company when the company does well. Another reason Apple stock will go up is because Apple made new products such as the iPad 3, iPad 2, and much more! It is good to manufacture stuff in China than in the U.S. because in China, companies pay people $2 an hour but in the U.S., they pay $20 per hour. If you manufactured in the U.S., it will lower your profit, so you would not want to do it in the U.S. Apple manufactures all of their products in China and this helps Apple have a bigger profit, which helps to raise the stock price. Another way Apple controls its costs is by using its own software instead of paying other companies, such as Microsoft, for their software. Cookie jar, in the last year Apple went up from $257.63-$599.55! That is an increase of 72.2%!! If I leave the money you have inside you, we will get 0%. Apple makes good products that everybody wants to buy! Sometimes Apple did lose money but very rarely. Overall Apple went up. According to analysts on TV, Apple might be going up by 14.5% in one year! For these reasons, Apple is a good company to invest in. The name of my bond is C891W.208.37. It is really UPS (United Postal Service), but UPS is an abbreviation. The rating of this bond is AA-+. Two days ago, the price of this bond was $138, the yield is 8.375%. Even though Apple's return last year was 72%, I would still buy this bond because bonds hardly ever lose money. SIFMA FoundationJoshua Zirkiyev after ringing NASDAQ MarketSite after the closing bell on November 10, 2014. I am also going to invest in the Mutual Fund called Fidelity Small Cap Discovery Fund. According to www.fidelity.com, it invests in 67 small companies! Its code is FSCRX. This fund is going to do well because in the last 3 years, FSCRX went up 36.19% per year! But last year, it only went up 4.83%. This means that if I invested $100 in this fund last year, today I would have $104.83. In the last 5 years, it went up 9.25% per year! The expense ratio is 1.08%. An expense ratio is what it costs an investment to operate a Mutual Fund. This means that if you invested $100, after one year, the fund will charge you $1.08. But do not worry, Mr. Cookie jar, based on the past information, the growth of this fund is much higher than the expense ratio. I checked. Mr. Cookie jar, if you give me all the money that you have, all of the money will grow and I will then try to sell the stock, bond, or mutual fund. You, Mr. Cookie jar, will be able to make more money when the stock, bond, or mutual fund goes up. This is a deal you can’t refuse. FREE AppDownload
