Adam Carstens The Census Bureau just released a new set of state population estimates. These estimates revealed a definite pattern: there are definitely two different regions within the United States, each with their own pattern of growth. For simplicity’s sake, I’m calling these “America1” and “America2.” Neither is meant to be pejorative, but I think these labels reflect the role these regions will take in American life going forward. For clarity’s sake, in this definition, America1 is largely made up of the Northeast, the Midwest, the Mississippi Valley, the Northern Plains and Alaska. America2 is the coastal Southeast from the Mason Dixon line south, as well as Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama, as well as Texas, much of the West and Hawaii.  According to Census data, America1 has only grown about 1.5% since 2010 (a gain of just over 2 million people), while America2 has grown nearly 5% (a gain of over 8 million people). This is due to two main factors: natural change (births minus deaths), and net migration (international immigration plus domestic migration). Since the Census, America2’s natural population change has been twice America1’s, giving it some major demographic tailwinds. In addition, America2’s international immigration rate has been about 40% higher than America1’s since 2010. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the domestic migration rate from America1 into America2 has gained the latter region an additional 1.6 million people since 2010. This means, on a net basis, America2 has gained over 4 million people from migration since 2010, while America1 has only gained about 46,000! Adam Carstens Combine this all together, and it means America1 needs many more immigrants from around the world just to keep its population relatively steady. In contrast, America2 benefits from many different positive demographic forces acting in concert. As you can see from the additional maps, if not for international immigration, several states in America1 would have lost population outright over the past year. And positive domestic migration was largely concentrated in America2, with North Dakota and New Mexico being major exceptions for each region. Adam Carstens America1 is less diverse overall than America2, which looks more like what the future of the United States will become than the past. While there is a sizable African-American population in both regions, Hispanics make up nearly a quarter of America2, with non-Hispanic whites getting closer to a plurality instead of a majority. In addition, the largest metros of America2 are comprised of many fast-growing Sun Belt cities, while many of America1’s metros are champions of America’s legacy assets in industry and higher education.  REUTERS/Mike BlakeA new housing development in San Marcos, CaliforniaThe economic situation is far from dire in either region – on the contrary, economic growth in both America1 and America2 has been quite strong since 2010. On an overall basis, America2’s GDP has grown 7% since 2010, but on a per capita basis, America1 has actually grown slightly faster (around 3.5%). This is no doubt due to the significant rise in energy production from America1, which produced 8 quadrillion more BTUs in 2012 than America2. Agriculture has no doubt also contributed to this GDP gain, as American farm exports continue to increase. As America1 is to energy production, agriculture and manufacturing, America2 is definitely more focused on the consumption side of things, with lots of land available in relatively warm or temperate climates for cheap housing. And in terms of overall employment growth – of the top 100 metros with the largest employment growth rates listed here, two thirds of them are in America2. America1 and America2 aren’t purely “Republican” or “Democratic” either – both regions voted for Obama in 2012, yet have more Republican governors, senators and congressmen as of now. In that way, they are both reflective of the national trend over the past few years. ShutterstockNew York City is America1So what does this mean for the future of both America1 and America2? Barring a major reversal of trend, America1 will continue to be heavily reliant on international immigration to maintain its population. Thankfully, many of the best educational institutions in the world reside in America1, as well as major financial, industrial and energy centers. So America1 isn’t going anywhere – many of the best and brightest from around the world will continue to move to America1 to learn from the best and seek their fortune. But in terms of raw growth and the demographic future of America, the resumption of America2’s fast growth is in many ways the continuation of an old post-war story of migration to the West and the South – remember, in the 1980s, California grew so fast that it gained 7 electoral votes in the 1990 census. As the American economic recovery picks up steam, as home values continue to rise, as many Baby Boomers look to retire and relocate, and as many Millennials pair up and form families and begin look for cheaper housing in nice climates, America2 should be well positioned to grow at a healthy rate for the foreseeable future. Flickr/Terence S. JonesAtlanta is America2 America2’s major advantages are that it has plenty of land available in nice climates, as well as the willingness to build new housing to meet that demand. Outside certain parts of California, there isn’t really a “preservationist” ethic inside America2 – there is a willingness to do what it takes to build. Most of America2 is so “new” that a preservationist ethic has not yet taken hold. Granted, it may develop one someday, but not yet. The contours and borders of America1 and America2 may change slightly over time, but for now, I believe this represents the two different growth dynamics in the United States for the foreseeable future. And one final point for emphasis: I believe any country or region around the world would be ecstatic to have the assets and institutions of either America1 or America2. The United States is doubly blessed because, at least for now, we have both. Adam Carstens tweets @adamcarstens. FREE AppDownload
