With 2014 about to end, Societe Generale's cross-asset team has pulled together a pile of charts that explain the biggest trends in financial markets this year.  Here are the best five, showing the big trends that have been at play in advanced economies over the past 12 months: 1. Disinflation. Inflation is dropping pretty much everywhere. Japan is the only country for which inflation has risen during 2014, partly because of significant monetary stimulus and more largely because of the sales-tax hike. In the US and UK, inflation is dropping closer to 1% than 2%, and in the eurozone, it's toying with zero and below.  Societe Generale Cross Asset Research 2. The Almighty Dollar. The dollar was strong in 2014, back at its highest since 2010, rising against every other widely traded currency. The yen and the euro are down more than 10% from their 2013 dollar levels, and Russia's ruble absolutely crumbled in comparison with the US currency late this year. Societe General Cross Asset Research 3. Central Banks Are Diverging. Despite a new commitment to boosting the size of its balance sheet, the European Central Bank was the big loser on this front in 2014, while the Bank of Japan promised extraordinary stimulus that will keep its asset pile growing. The Fed's quantitative easing got tapered and ended, leveling off the balance sheet. Societe Generale Cross Asset Research 4. Commodities Got Crushed. Commodities got hammered in 2014, particularly oil and particularly toward the end of the year. Those falling oil prices are likely to add to falling inflation in the year ahead and push the eurozone into mild deflation at the start of next year. Societe Generale Cross Asset Management 5. The US-Europe Yield Spread. Through 2014, the diverging outlooks for Europe and US economies became particularly obvious. With practically no growth or inflation (and certainly no hikes in interest rates) on the horizon for Europe, German yields just kept dropping, hitting historically low levels. In comparison, with the US recovery looking increasingly solid, the end of quantitative easing, and a rate hike very much on the horizon, US Treasury yields have been climbing. Societe Generale Cross Asset Management FREE AppDownload
