FordFord closed down almost 7.5% on Monday.  The bloodletting was swift: the company basically fell off a cliff at about 3 p.m. The stock closed at $15, after ending Friday at $16. Concerns about Ford's losses in Europe and South America drove the selloff. Bloomberg reported that Ford expects to lose a combined $2.2 billion in both markets this year. It was a rough day for Ford's new CEO, Mark Fields, who took over at the Blue Oval in July.Screenshot via Yahoo FinanceFord took a dive in the markets.The damage in Europe can largely be chalked up to problems in Russia, where auto sales are on the decline, according to the Detroit Free Press. Automakers have been looking to Russia for growth, to make up for troubled overall European operations. But the plans of Ford and others have been upended by the ongoing crisis in Ukraine, which has led to economic sanctions against Russia.APSanctions against Russia have hurt car sales there.The magnitude of Ford's predicted losses in Europe are eye-catching. In the second quarter, Ford reported a slight profit in Europe, after failing to make any money there since 2011. The European situation hasn't exactly been good, but investors on Monday were taken aback by how feeble the prospects for improvement are. The impending losses were announced at a Ford investor conference, along with the news that Ford will reduce the total number of so-called "platforms" on which it builds its vehicles to 9 from 15.  That's a significant reduction for an automaker that offers vehicles in a wide variety of segments, from compact cars to full-size pickup trucks. But Ford has been executing this reduction for several years, as part of the "One Ford" strategy that former CEO Alan Mulally introduced when he took the helm at the company before the financial crisis.Sakchai Lalit/APFormer Ford CEO Alan Mulally.On Monday, the company also announced a recall of 850,000 vehicles for an electrical issue that could affect airbags. The recall could cost the automaker $500 million in 2014, the Detroit News reported. Ford, General Motors, and upstart electric carmaker Tesla have all been trading lower in the second half of September. Tesla is still up massively from its 2010 IPO price, but GM and Ford have been struggling, even as new car sales in the U.S. have surged to heights not seen since the boom years before the Great Recession. FREE AppDownload
