Enzo Figueres/ Getty ImagesWall Street banks could desert Britain if the country decides to leave the European Union, senior figures in the industry have reportedly said. Some major institutions are believed to be already drawing up plans to move activities abroad amid concerns that the UK is drifting further away from the EU. Most US and Asian banks currently run their main European operations from the UK, which gives them a passport to provide services across the EU. But if the UK left the European Union, it is believed to be unlikely foreign banks based in London would carry on receiving the same rights. According to the Financial Times, US-based banks including Bank of America, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley are considering Ireland as a favourable alternative location for business currently conducted in London. One senior UK-based manager at a Wall Street bank was quoted as saying: “I’m frankly looking at moving some activities to Ireland. “I think the Irish central bank and government would welcome this.” Citigroup employs around 2,500 people in Ireland, while JP Morgan and Bank of America each employ 500 staff there. Ireland has become attractive to foreign banks due to its low corporate tax rate, English-speaking workforce, and eurozone membership. Other possible destinations for US-based business, should Britain leave the EU, could include Frankfurt or Paris. According to TheCityUK, a lobby group, more than 250 foreign banks are hosted by the UK and they accounted for around a third of last year’s £71<U+2009>billion financial services trade surplus. Last month, foreign banks based in London warned the Treasury about the possible consequences of an EU exit. In a submission, the Association of Foreign Banks said Britain should stay in the union because it would remain in a position to influence EU rules. A spokesman for the group said: “If Britain withdraws from Europe, then foreign banks may reassess their reasons for maintaining their business in Britain and may decide to continue their business elsewhere.”  FREE AppDownload
