REUTERS/Jason ReedMohamed El-Erian, CEO of PIMCOMohamed El-Erian has resigned as CEO of PIMCO, the world's second largest mutual fund, but is staying on to advise parent company Allianz. El-Erian, 55, has been with PIMCO most of the past 15 years.  He will directly report to Michael Diekmann, CEO of Allianz. El-Erian has released a statement through PIMCO thanking his colleagues but without specifying his future plans. Douglas Hodge, currently COO, will step up as CEO. Jay Jacobs was also named president. Bill Gross is staying on as Chief Investment Officer. El-Erian will officially step down in mid-March. Full release » Leadership changes at PIMCO New responsibilities for Mohamed El-Erian within Allianz Group Pacific Investment Management Company LLC (PIMCO), US-based Asset Management  subsidiary of Allianz, has reorganized its leadership structure. Mohamed El-Erian, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment Officer of PIMCO,  today has resigned from his functions effective mid-March and will leave PIMCO at the same  time. He will stay on the International Executive Committee of Allianz and will advise the  Board of Management of Allianz SE on global economic and policy issues. Mohamed  El-Erian will directly report to Michael Diekmann, CEO of Allianz SE. William H. Gross, founder of PIMCO, will remain Chief Investment Officer. Portfolio  management will be strengthened by the appointment of the Managing Directors Andrew Balls and Daniel Ivascyn as Deputy Chief Investment Officers. In today’s meeting, effective as of the above-mentioned date, PIMCO’s Managing Directors  also elected Douglas Hodge, Managing Director and currently Chief Operating Officer of  PIMCO, as Chief Executive Officer and Jay Jacobs, Managing Director and currently Global  Head of Talent Management, as President. Craig Dawson, Managing Director and currently  Head of PIMCO Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Italy, will assume the position as Head of  Strategic Business Management. "Over the past years, PIMCO has achieved an outstanding performance in Asset  Management. It speaks for the strength and diversity of PIMCO that all positions can be filled  by internal candidates. With this continuity we are well prepared for the future," said Jay  Ralph, Member of the Board of Management of Allianz SE. "We are pleased that we will continue to profit from the expertise of Mohamed El-Erian, from  his large global network and excellent knowledge of the macroeconomic conditions," said  Michael Diekmann. FREE AppDownload
