From Bitcoin to the Swiss gold referendum, and from Chinese trade and North Korean leadership, Jim Rogers covers a lot of ground in this excellent interview with Boom-Bust's Erin Ade. Rogers reflects on the end of the US bull market, citing a number of factors from breadth to the end of QE, adding that he agrees with Albert Edwards' perspective that now is the time to "sell everything and run for your lives," as the "consequences of [The Fed] are now being felt." Most notably, though, Rogers believes the de-dollarization is here to stay as Western sanctions force many nations to find alternatives.  Simply put, Rogers concludes, "we are all going to pay a terrible price for all this money-printing and debt." Excerpts: On US stocks: This is the end of the bull market. Stocks will fall 20% Market breadth is waning as evidenced by the lower number of stocks hitting new highs and trading above their 200-day moving averages. Small cap stocks have already corrected over 10 percent and almost half of the Nasdaq is down 20 percent — a bear market already. Where is this headed? Consolidation is the bare minimum. But, depending on the real economy, it could be worse. On The Fed: We are all going to pay a terrible price for all this money-printing ... They are doing this at the expense of people who save and invest. They are doing it to bail out the people who borrowed huge amounts of money. The consequences are already being felt. On de-dollarization: The move away from the US dollar is yet another reaction to Western sanctions placed on Russia since it annexed Crimea from Ukraine in March. Russia and Iran have agreed to use their own national currencies in bilateral trade transactions rather than the US dollar. An original agreement to trade in rials and rubles was made earlier this month in a meeting between Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak and Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh. Similarly, Russia and China also agreed to trade with each other using the ruble and yuan in early September, following a Russian deal with North Korea in June to trade in rubles This article originally appeared at Zero Hedge.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
