REUTERS/Charles PlatiauOil is plunging, with WTI crude dipping below $80 per barrel on Thursday morning for the first time since June 2012. But will the Canadian economy plummet along with it? That’s unlikely. At the very least, it’s safe to say that any negative effects of the drop-off in black gold won’t be felt immediately. One reason for this: while tumbling crude prices are both a function of weak demand growth and supply, the latter has been playing the larger role in pushing the price to multi-year lows. “The geopolitical risk premium that contributed to oil’s rally earlier in the year did not affect supply in a meaningfully negative way,” says Randall Bartlett, senior economist at TD Bank. “As such, there was little justification for those levels in the first place.” From an export perspective, real GDP is dependent upon oil shipments as opposed to the nominal value of what we get for our crude sales. Virtually all of Canada’s oil exports go to the United States, and judging by the fragility of the global economy, Canadians should be very thankful we’re hitched to this wagon. Unless growth in U.S. shale is significant enough to displace America’s thirst for Canadian crude in volume terms, there’s no reason to expect real oil exports will take a hit. Moreover, plunging crude serves as a form of stimulus for consumers by freeing up cash that would otherwise be dedicated to gas. For over-extended Canadian households, this is welcome relief that may continue to prop up retail sales in the months to come. But the far bigger story is the impact on U.S. demand. Lower crude has been accompanied by a lower Canadian dollar. As such, we have a dream scenario for long-struggling non-commodity exporters in Canada. Firm U.S. demand, with consumers having more disposable income due to lower prices at the pump, coupled with a lower Canadian dollar that effectively puts our goods on sale, is just what the doctor ordered for Central Canada. Increased sales might even lead to an expansion of capacity in these non-commodity segments, as unit labour costs relative to the United States improve in light of our petrocurrency’s decline. But after all that, I must admit that, yes: a falling oil price is indeed a net negative for Canada’s economy, with a bit of a lag. And historically speaking, it’s not a particularly large one. “Real GDP is not all that sensitive to in-quarter changes in oil prices, but it does have an impact – and that impact is negative,” says TD’s Bartlett. So, with respect to The Globe and Mail’s David Parkinson, Canadians shouldn’t panic about the crash in crude – at least, not yet. It’s not the fall in oil we’ve seen that should be worrisome, but rather the danger that prices stay at this level for a prolonged period of time or sink lower. Companies considering investments in Canada’s oil patch aren’t wholly focused on the spot price of oil when it comes to making a decision; they’re looking at what the average price is likely to be over the next decade or so. Nevertheless, the $80 per barrel level is a particularly important one: the International Energy Agency estimates that a quarter of new Canadian projects simply aren’t viable at such a level. “The effects [of lower oil prices] are likely to be quite nonlinear, because if you look at in situ investment in the oil sands, the break-evens for a lot of those projects seem to be about $80 per barrel,” said CIBC economist Peter Buchanan. “Once you start moving below that level, you would then start to see significant cancellations or delays in these projects.” The economist noted that there are some reasons to think that oil prices will recoup these losses over the medium term, which would make this discussion irrelevant. For one, he expects the global economy to pick up steam next year, and demand to rise along with it. In addition, Buchanan thinks production in two key regions won’t necessarily be as high as some forecast. Russia needs a ton of investment to keep production in its aging fields from declining, he says, and the investment environment in Iraq is not too friendly at the present time, to say the least. If oil prices fail to recover, however, the vast amount of capital spending in Canada’s oil patch means that any slowdown will show up in GDP, and would be very difficult to offset. “Another thing to remember is how enormous investment in resource extraction is – it’s many times more than one auto plant or what capital outlays have been in manufacturing in recent years,” Buchanan said. “So certainly, even a modest softening in energy investment would pose challenges to the Bank of Canada’s hopes of a rotation into business investment along with exports helping to support the economy going forward.” But above all else, Canada’s economic fortunes are closely tied to those of the United States, which is in the process of moving from being described as the ‘cleanest dirty shirt’ of global economic powerhouses into ‘finely tailored tuxedo’ territory. In plain terms: things are looking up for our neighbours to the south, and that bodes well for Canada. Over the past 30 years, Canadian economic growth has been positive in 95 percent of the quarters in which the U.S. economy expanded. Time to breathe a sigh of relief. FREE AppDownload
